Modernized Selected Acquisition Report (MSAR)
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars (AMDR FoR)
FY 2025 President's Budget
Effective: December 31, 2023
Defense Acquisition Visibility Environment
UNCLASSIFIED
UNCLASSIFIED
 
                       CLEARED AS AMENDED 
For Open Publication 
 
 
Department of Defense 
OFFICE OF PREPUBLICATION AND SECURITY REVIEW 
 
Oct 24, 2024

Table of Contents
Common DoD Abbreviations
3
Program Description
5
Responsible Office
6
Executive Summary
7
Schedule
12
Performance
15
Acquisition Budget Estimate
22
Unit Costs
27
Life-Cycle Costs
32
Technologies and Systems Engineering
42
Performing Activities and Contracts
44
Production
57
Deliveries and Expenditures
58
International Program Aspects
61
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
UNCLASSIFIED
2

(U) Common DoD Abbreviations
$B
Billions of Dollars
$K
Thousands of Dollars
$M
Millions of Dollars
ACAT
Acquisition Category
Acq O&M
Acquisition-Related Operations and Maintenance
ADM
Acquisition Decision Memorandum
APA
Additional Performance Attribute
APB
Acquisition Program Baseline
APPN
Appropriation
APUC
Average Procurement Unit Cost
BA
Budget Authority or Budget Activity
Blk
Block
BY
Base Year
CAE
Component Acquisition Executive
CAPE
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation
CARD
Cost Analysis Requirements Description
CCE
Component Cost Estimate
CCP
Component Cost Position
CDD
Capability Development Document
CLIN
Contract Line Item Number
CPD
Capability Production Document
CY
Calendar Year or Constant Year
DAB
Defense Acquisition Board
DAE
Defense Acquisition Executive
DAES
Defense Acquisition Executive Summary
DAVE
Defense Acquisition Visibility Environment
DoD
Department of Defense
DSN
Defense Switched Network
EMD
Engineering and Manufacturing Development
EVM
Earned Value Management
FD
Full Deployment
FDD
Full-Deployment Decision
FMS
Foreign Military Sales
FOC
Full Operational Capability
FRP
Full-Rate Production
FY
Fiscal Year
FYDP
Future Years Defense Program
ICD
Initial Capabilities Document
ICE
Independent Cost Estimate
Inc
Increment
IOC
Initial Operational Capability
IT
Information Technology
JROC
Joint Requirements Oversight Council
KPP
Key Performance Parameter
KSA
Key System Attribute
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Common DoD Abbreviations
UNCLASSIFIED
3

LRIP
Low-Rate Initial Production
MDA
Milestone Decision Authority
MDAP
Major Defense Acquisition Program
MILCON
Military Construction
N/A
Not Applicable
O
Objective
O&M
Operations and Maintenance
O&S
Operating and Support
ORD
Operational Requirements Document
OSD
Office of the Secretary of Defense
PAUC
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
PB
President’s Budget
PE
Program Element
PEO
Program Executive Officer
PM
Program Manager
POE
Program Office Estimate
R&MF
Revolving and Management Funds
RDT&E
Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation
SAR
Selected Acquisition Report
SCP
Service Cost Position
T
Threshold
TBD
To Be Determined
TY
Then Year
U.S.
United States
U.S.C
United States Code
UCR
Unit Cost Reporting
USD(A&S)
Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment)
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Common DoD Abbreviations
UNCLASSIFIED
4

(U) Program Description
Full Name
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of 
Radars
PNO
384
Lead Component
Department of the Navy
Joint Program
No
Adaptive Acquisition Pathway
Major Capability Acquisition
Acquisition Category 
IC
Acquisition Status
Active Acquisition
Short Name
AMDR FoR
Decision Authority
Component Acquisition Executive
Program Executive Office
PEO Integrated Warfare Systems
Supporting Components
Missile Defense Agency
International Partners
Australia
Acquisition Type
Major Defense Acquisition Program
Acquired Systems
AMDR FoR
Subprograms
Full Name
Short Name
Acquisition 
Status
In 
Report?
Acquired 
Systems
Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/
SPY-6(V)4
AMDR Backfit - AN/
SPY-6(V)4
Active 
Acquisition
Yes
AN/SPY-6(V)4
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
AMDR - AN/SPY-6(V)1
Active 
Acquisition
Yes
AN/SPY-6(V)1
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air 
Surveillance Radar
EASR Rotating Radar - 
AN/SPY-6(V)2
Active 
Acquisition
Yes
AN/SPY-6(V)2
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air 
Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face
EASR FF - AN/
SPY-6(V)3
Active 
Acquisition
Yes
AN/SPY-6(V)3
Mission
Developed under the Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program, the AN/SPY-6(V)1 is the 
Navy's next generation radar system that will address Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) and Air 
Defense (AD) capability gaps identified in the Maritime Air and Missile Defense of Joint Forces 
(MAMDJF) Initial Capabilities Document (ICD). AN/SPY-6(V)1 is an Integrated Air and Missile 
Defense (IAMD) radar providing sensitivity for long range detection and engagement of 
advanced threats. The AN/SPY-6(V)1 is currently planned to be deployed on the Arleigh Burke 
Class Guided Missile Destroyer Flight III with four arrays each populated with 37 Radar Modular 
Assemblies (RMAs) which achieves the Capability Production Document (CPD) threshold of SPY
+16dB sensitivity with margin.
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Program Description
UNCLASSIFIED
5

(U) Responsible Office
Program Executive Officer
PEO Integrated Warfare Systems
No Data
Program Manager
Air and Missile Defense Radar PMO
CAPT Jesse M. Mink
jesse.m.mink.mil@us.navy.mil (primary)
(202) 781-3202 (commercial)
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Responsible Office
UNCLASSIFIED
6

(U) Executive Summary
 Program Highlights Since Last Report
AN/SPY-6(V) is a family of radars (FoR) which are designed to be scalable and adaptable across 
multiple ship classes and mission requirements.  The AN/SPY-6(V)1 is the Navy's next 
generation radar system that will address Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) and Air Defense (AD) 
capability gaps identified in the Maritime Air and Missile Defense of Joint Forces (MAMDJF) 
Initial Capabilities Document (ICD).  AN/SPY-6(V)1 has four 37 Radar Modular Assembly (RMA) 
arrays to provide Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) sensitivity for long range detection 
and engagement of advanced threats.  AN/SPY-6(V)4 is a scaled (V)1 system (24 RMAs) 
currently planned to replace the AN/SPY-1 radar on existing DDG 51 FLT IIA ships to bring IAMD 
capabilities to the fleet.  The AN/SPY-6(V)2 configuration is a single 9 RMA rotating array, and 
the AN/SPY-6(V)3 configuration is three fixed 9 RMA arrays. (V)2 and (V)3 are developed as one 
sensor in a new sensor suite that is designed to meet the performance needs contained in the 
Battlespace Awareness ICD. The specific system performance requirements are documented in 
the Enterprise Radar Suite Naval Capabilities Document (ERS NCD). AN/SPY-6(V)2 is planned to 
replace the AN/SPS-48 and AN/SPS-49 radars on large deck Amphibious hulls and Nimitz CVNs. 
The AN/SPY-6(V)3 replaces the AN/SPY-4 Volume Search Radar on FORD CVNs and is used as 
the primary self-defense radar for Constellation FFGs.
(U) History of Significant Developments Since Program Inception
Date
Description
April 2024
Completion of ship set 6 SPY-6 deliveries.
February 2024
DDG 125 participated in FTX-23 mission.
November 2023
Completion of ship set 7 SPY-6 deliveries.
September 2023
DDG 125 first successful SM-2 Live Fire Event
September 2023
DDG 125 completed sail away, commissioning, and transit to home port.
July 2023
Completion of ship set 5 SPY-6 deliveries.
June 2023
DDG 125 delivered to the fleet. 
May 2023
DDG 125 builder's trials completed. 
December 2022
DDG 125 underway for Alpha Trials, first time for AN/SPY-6(V)1 operations at-sea.
April 2022
Completion of ship set 4 SPY-6 deliveries.
March 2022
Awarded the Hardware Production and Sustainment contract.
March 2022
Completion of ship set 3 SPY-6 deliveries.
December 2021
Completion of the DDG 125 AEGIS Light-Off (ALO)
March 2021
Completion of ship set 2 SPY-6 deliveries.
October 2020
Completion of DDG 125 SPY-6 deliveries.
December 2019
Exercised contract options for two more Low Rate Initial Production units bringing the unit 
total to nine
March 2019
Exercised contract options for three more Low Rate Initial Production units bringing the 
unit total to seven.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Executive Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
7

Date
Description
January 2019
Vigilant Nemesis flight test
December 2018
Awarded Integration and Production Support contract to Raytheon
April 2018
Exercised contract option for a fourth Low Rate Initial Production unit
March 2018
Vigilant Janus flight test
December 2017
Combined Systems Engineering Technical Review (Transition Critical Design Review, 
System Verification Review/Functional Configuration Audit, and Production Readiness 
Review)
September 2017
Vigilant Talon flight test
July 2017
Vigilant Titan flight test
May 2017
Exercised contract options for first three Low Rate Initial Production units
April 2017
Milestone C Acquisition Decision Memorandum
March 2017
Vigilant Hunter flight test
December 2016
Exercised Long Lead Material contract option for first Low Rate Initial Production unit
September 2016
Start of Developmental Test 3 (DT-3)
April 2015
System Critical Design Review
August 2014
System Preliminary Design Review
October 2013
Milestone B Acquisition Decision Memorandum
October 2013
Awarded one 48-month Engineering and Manufacturing Development contract to 
Raytheon
May 2012
Pre-Engineering and Manufacturing Development Defense Acquisition Board Review
September 2010
Milestone A Acquisition Decision Memorandum
September 2010
Awarded three 24-month Technology Development contracts to Raytheon, Lockheed 
Martin, and Northrop Grumman
June 2009
Awarded three 6-month Concept Studies contracts to Raytheon, Lockheed Martin, and 
Northrop Grumman
 Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
 Program Highlights Since Last Report
In February 2024, AN/SPY-6(V)4 was officially added to the AMDR ACAT 1C program as a Post-MS C 
major subprogram via Acquisition Program Baseline Change 4. The first unit is on contract in 
production and targeted to be installed on DDG91 in 2026. The sub-program key focus areas are 
ship integration, combat system integration, software development, production, and testing. Support 
for integration with Flight IIA generators, cooling system, and structure is on-going along with 
planning for installation on DDG 91. Planning for integration with future Aegis B/L 10M Combat 
System is currently in progress. Software development started after the establishment of radar 
system requirements. Test and evaluation planning for system testing beginning in FY 2025 is on-
going with prime contractor.
(U) History of Significant Developments Since Program Inception
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Executive Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
8

No Data
 AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
 Program Highlights Since Last Report
After completing Concept Studies and Technology Development phase contracts with Raytheon, 
Northrop Grumman, and Lockheed Martin, the Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program 
achieved Milestone B in September 2013 and received a signed ADM on October 4, 2013. After a full 
and open competition, the EMD contract was awarded to Raytheon on October 10, 2013.
The EMD phase included integration and test of a single-faced AN/SPY-6(V)1 Engineering 
Development Model with an AN/SPQ-9B asset at the land-based test site at the Pacific Missile 
Range Facility (PMRF) in Kauai, HI. Developmental Testing (DT)-3 live testing commenced on 
September 6, 2016, and included multiple live Air, Surface, Electronic Attack/Electronic Protection 
(EA/EP), Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD), Integrated Air and Missile Defense, missile 
communications test set, satellites, and sphere tracking tests. The Vigilant Janus BMD flight test 
analysis resulted in the March 2018 decision to close DT-3 and direction to conduct a retest. The 
Vigilant Nemesis retest, successfully executed in January 2019, demonstrated the AN/SPY-6(V)1 
capability to detect, track, and discriminate an AEGIS Readiness Assessment Vehicle-CZ  complex 
short-range ballistic missile target and support the design of the AEGIS Baseline (BL) 10 combat 
system. AN/SPY-6(V)1 testing will continue at PMRF against live Air, Surface, EA/EP, BMD, satellites 
and sphere targets and other agency Targets of Opportunity (TOOs).  During this continued testing 
and integration period, the SPY-6 team has supported combat system integration with the AEGIS 
Baseline 10 development team at the Combat System Engineering Development Site (CSEDS).  
Significant combat system integration and test efforts have also been completed at PMRF using the 
BL10 Virtual Test Environment installed at the Advanced Radar Development Evaluation Laboratory 
(ARDEL).  During this integration, the radar has supported several multi-mission tracking exercises 
and BMD TOOs while being commanded by the combat system.
The EMD phase contract included options for nine LRIP units. The program received Milestone C 
approval on April 27, 2017 and subsequently exercised contract options for three LRIP systems. In 
April 2018, the AMDR program received an ADM that authorized award of one additional FY 2018 
LRIP radar system, and upon successful Vigilant Nemesis test, authorized award of up to five 
additional LRIP radar systems. On March 14, 2019 three additional options were exercised, and on 
December 20, 2019 two additional options were exercised bringing the exercised options to a total 
of nine units. A third ADM dated April 26, 2019, authorized the award of one additional LRIP unit, 
bringing the total authorized to ten units.  This was followed by a fourth ADM issued October 9, 
2021, which authorized the AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program to 
procure an additional six AN/SPY-6(V)1 Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) units, subject to 
authorization by Congress of DDG 51 Flight III associated with each unit. The Hardware Production 
and Sustainment (HP&S) contract was awarded 31 March 2022, and AN/SPY-6(V)1 units 10-16 have 
been put on contract.  The fifth ADM was issued July 20, 2023 which authorized the AN/SPY-6(V)1 
Air and Missile Defense Radar (AMDR) program to procure up to fourteen additional AN/SPY-6(V)1 
Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) units, subject to Congressional authorization and the availability 
of appropriations for such purpose.   
The AMDR program remains within budget. Equipment for the first 7 shipsets has been delivered 
with additional LRIP deliveries completing in 2024, and remaining deliveries will be in support of 
shipbuilding schedules.  All delivery outlooks to the shipyards are ahead of need to support 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Executive Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
9

shipbuilding schedules. The program supported the successful completion of the DDG 125 AEGIS 
Light-Off (ALO) milestone in December 2021. From December 2022 to May 2023, the program 
supported DDG 125 builder's trials and integrated underway testing. DDG 125 was delivered to the 
fleet in June 2023. In September 2023, DDG 125 departed HII and completed a successful SM-2 live 
fire event, commissioning, and transit to home port. The program's focus continued on installation 
support as well as production and test of the follow-on units, and the continued integration activities 
with AEGIS BL10. Software deliveries, integration, and testing continues with BL10 to support 
continued stage testing and ship trials leading to ship delivery. AN/SPY-6(V)1 has design co-
dependencies with the combat system that requires further planned software work for integration 
with AEGIS BL10.
Additional (V)1 units have been procured on HP&S (N00024-22-C-5500) FPIF CLINs.
(U) History of Significant Developments Since Program Inception
No Data
 AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
 Program Highlights Since Last Report
In Jan 2023, AN/SPY-6(V)2 was officially added to the AMDR ACAT 1C program as a Post- MS C 
major subprogram via APB. Initial units for this variant were awarded on the Enterprise Air 
Surveillance Radar (EASR) EMD/LRIP contract, with four (4) AN/SPY-6(V)2 units awarded in 2020. 
There are now a total of eight (8) AN/SPY-6(V)2 units on contract. The first (V)2 unit was loaded 
aboard LPD29 starting in 2022. The second (V)2 unit was delivered to LHA-8 and the third was 
delivered to CVN-74, with loading both beginning in 2023. The fourth (V)2 unit was delivered to 
LPD-30 in early 2024. The program's focus continued on installation support as well as production 
and test of the follow-on units, and the continued integration activities with SSDS BL12. Software 
deliveries, integration, and testing continues with SSDS to support continued stage testing and ship 
trials leading to ship delivery. AN/SPY-6(V)2 has design co-dependencies with the combat system 
that requires further planned software work for integration with SSDS BL12.
(U) History of Significant Developments Since Program Inception
Date
Description
February 2024
Completion of LPD-29 Acceptance Trials.
January 2024
Completion of LPD-29 Propulsion Trials.
January 2024
Completion of ship set 4 SPY-6 deliveries.
September 2023
Completion of LPD-29 Bravo Trials.
September 2023
Completion of ship set 3 SPY-6 deliveries.
August 2023
Completion of ship set 2 SPY-6 deliveries.
December 2022
Completion of LPD 29 SPY-6 deliveries.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Executive Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
10

 AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
 Program Highlights Since Last Report
In Jan 2023, AN/SPY-6(V)3 was officially added to the AMDR ACAT 1C program as a Post- MS C 
major subprogram via APB. Initial units for these variants were awarded on the Enterprise Air 
Surveillance Radar (EASR) EMD/LRIP contract, with two (2) AN/SPY-6(V)3 units awarded in 2020. 
There are now a total of six (6) AN/SPY-6(V)3 units on contract.
The first (V)3 unit was loaded aboard CVN-79, starting in 2022, the second aboard FFG-62 in early 
2024. The program's focus continued on installation support as well as production and test of the 
follow-on units, and the continued integration activities with SSDS BL12 (for CVN Ford Class (V)3 
units) as well as AEGIS BL10F (for Constellation Class FFG (V)3 units). Software deliveries, 
integration, and testing continues with SSDS BL12 and AEGIS BL10F to support continued stage 
testing and ship trials leading to ship delivery. AN/SPY-6(V)3 has design co- dependencies with the 
combat system that requires further planned software work for integration with SSDS BL12 and 
AEGIS BL10F.
(U) History of Significant Developments Since Program Inception
Date
Description
January 2024
Completion of ship set 2 SPY-6 deliveries.
May 2022
Completion of CVN 79 SPY-6 deliveries.
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Executive Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
11

(U) Schedule
 Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Schedule Events
Events
APB Change 
4
(Milestone)
2/9/2024
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
Objective / Threshold
Current
Estimate
12/31/2023
Actual
Initial Operational 
Capability(Start)
IOC
Oct 2029
Oct 2029
Oct 2030
Oct 2029
-
 Notes
None
 Schedule Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Current Significant Schedule Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/31/2023
SPY-6(V)4 Performance Testing: If sufficient full array live radar testing cannot 
be accomplished prior installation aboard ship, then delays will be incurred to 
verify residual requirements which could delay ship return to fleet or some 
requirements may not be met.
Current
12/31/2023
SPY-6(V)4 Power Integration: If power integration issues associated with power 
ripple cause failures on DDG 91, then additional time and cost will be needed to 
address defects or system may not be able to meet all requirements
 AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Schedule Events
Events
Production 
APB
(Milestone)
6/30/2017
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
Objective / Threshold
Current
Estimate
12/31/2023
Actual
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Schedule
UNCLASSIFIED
12

Milestone B
MS B
Oct 2013
Oct 2013
Oct 2013
-
4 Oct 2013
System CDR
CDR
Apr 2015
Apr 2015
Apr 2015
-
29 Apr 2015
Milestone C
MS C
Apr 2017
Apr 2017
Apr 2017
-
27 Apr 2017
DT-3 Complete
DT&E
Aug 2017
Aug 2017
Mar 2018
-
30 Mar 2018
IOT&E Complete
IOT&E
Feb 2024
Feb 2024
Aug 2024
Aug 2024
-
IOC
IOC
Feb 2024
Feb 2024
Aug 2024
Aug 2024
-
 Notes
None
 Schedule Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Current Significant Schedule Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/31/2021
There are other Radio Frequency (RF) systems on board each of the AMDR 
1. 
supported ship classes (DDG FLT II, Backfit DDG 51), that operate 
concurrently. If sufficient electromagnetic isolation between AMDR and other 
electromagnetic dependent systems on the ship's topside and off board 
environments cannot be achieved, then electromagnetic CONOPS may be 
required to successfully integrate AMDR with other collocated equipment 
and/or topside design changes may be needed to the various ship classes.
If a well-tested initial deceptive Electronic Protection (EP) architecture and 
2. 
capability is not delivered as part of Baseline (BL) 10.0, Then the Flight III 
combat system will be vulnerable to deceptive Electronic Attack (EA) threats, 
negatively impacting Developmental and Operational Testing (DT/OT).
 AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) Schedule Events
Events
APB Version 
3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
Objective / Threshold
Current
Estimate
12/31/2023
Actual
Initial Operational 
Capability(Start)
IOC
Aug 2028
Aug 2028
Aug 2029
Aug 2028
-
IOC
IOC
-
-
-
-
-
 Notes
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Schedule
UNCLASSIFIED
13

None
 Schedule Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Current Significant Schedule Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/31/2022
Power Management Testing and Ship Power Model
Current
12/31/2022
Spectrum Compliance
 AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) Schedule Events
Events
APB Version 
3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
Objective / Threshold
Current
Estimate
12/31/2023
Actual
Initial Operational 
Capability(Start)
IOC
Aug 2028
Aug 2028
Aug 2029
Aug 2028
-
 Notes
None
 Schedule Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Current Significant Schedule Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/31/2022
Power Management Testing and Ship Power Model
Current
12/31/2022
Spectrum Compliance
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Schedule
UNCLASSIFIED
14

(U) Performance
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Performance Attributes
Operational Availability
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Not available.
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ao>=0.98
2/9/2024
Threshold
Ao>=0.98
APB Change 4
(Milestone)
                          2/9/2024
Objective
Ao>=0.98
System Training
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Not available.
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ships Force performs>= 99% of corrective and 
preventative maintenance procedures, as defined in the 
maintenance manual, within the Time to Repair (TTR) 
specified to achieve the AN /SPY-6(V)4 Ao KPP.
2/9/2024
Threshold
Ships Force performs>= 99% of corrective and 
preventative maintenance procedures, as defined in the 
maintenance manual, within the Time to Repair (TTR) 
specified to achieve the AN /SPY-6(V)4 Ao KPP.
APB Change 4
(Milestone)
                          2/9/2024
Objective
Ships Force performs>= 99% of corrective and 
preventative maintenance procedures, as defined in the 
maintenance manual, within the Time to Repair (TTR) 
specified to achieve the AN /SPY-6(V)4 Ao KPP.
(U) Requirement Source:
Sponsor(s): United States Navy
NCD, Appendix to the AEGIS Advanced Capability Build (ACB) 20 Naval Capabilities Document (NCD)
1. 
 Validated By: RDML Pyle, N96, August 1, 2024
 Notes
None
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
15

 Performance Deviation Explanation
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Additional information for this section is provided in the classified annex to this submission.
(U) Performance Attributes
Availability
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Ao>/=0.99
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ao >=0.98
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Ao >=0.98
Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
Ao >=0.99
System Training
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Ships Force will be sufficiently trained to keep AN/
SPY-6(V)1 operating at or above the Ao KPP threshold of 
0.98
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ships Force performs>= 99% of corrective and 
preventative maintenance procedures, as defined in the 
maintenance manual, within the Time to Repair (TTR) 
specified to achieve the AN/SPY-6(V)1 Ao KPP.
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Ships Force performs>= 99% of corrective and 
preventative maintenance procedures, as defined in the 
maintenance manual, within the Time to Repair (TTR) 
specified to achieve the AN/SPY-6(V)1 Ao KPP.
Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
Maintenance technicians correctly perform >= 99% of 
critical tasks and >= 99% of non-critical tasks as defined in 
the TTL.
Net Ready
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 is an embedded element of the 
AEGIS combat system and does not produce, consume or 
process joint information.
Demonstrated Performance
-
N/A - Exempt
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Exemption: Net Ready KPP is not applicable to AN/
SPY-6(V)1 due to the lack of Joint Interfaces and Joint 
Information Exchanges.
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Exemption: Net Ready KPP is not applicable to AN/
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
16

SPY-6(V)1 due to the lack of Joint Interfaces and Joint 
Information Exchanges.
Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
Will satisfy applicable Net Ready KPP elements for all 
operational activities and information exchanges.
Energy Efficiency
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Reduced Power Substate 1 consumes 1100kW total 
power; Reduced Power Substate 2 consumes 850kW total 
power
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Two reduced power states to minimize platform fuel 
consumption: State 1 consumes no more than 1100 kW 
total prime power; State 2 consumes no more than 850 
kW total prime power.
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Two reduced power states to minimize platform 
fuel consumption: State 1 consumes no more than 1100 
kW total prime power; State 2 consumes no more than 
850 kW total prime power.
Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
Two reduced power states for AMDR-S, when commanded 
by the platform CMS: State 1 consumes no more than 
1100 kW total prime power; State 2 consumes no more 
than 850 kW total prime power
Survivability
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 will not decrease the 
survivability of the DDG 51 hull based on live fire 
equivalent testing (DDG 81 shock trial)
Demonstrated Performance
-
N/A - Exempt
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 will be integrated into the DDG 
51 Flt III with no decrease in survivability of the hull based 
on DDG 51 live fire equivalent testing (DDG 81 shock trial)
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 will be integrated into 
the DDG 51 Flt III with no decrease in survivability of the 
hull based on DDG 51 live fire equivalent testing (DDG 81 
shock trial)
Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
(Objective = Threshold) Exemption - AMDR will be 
integrated into the DDG 51 hull with no decrease in 
survivability of the hull based on DDG 51 live fire 
equivalent testing (DDG 81 shock trial)
Force Protection
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Exemption - Will support host platform requirement
Demonstrated Performance
-
N/A - Exempt
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 will support host platform 
requirement
2/9/2024
Threshold
(T=O) Exemption - AN/SPY-6(V)1 will support host 
platform requirement
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
17

Production APB
(Milestone)
                          6/30/2017
Objective
(Objective = Threshold) Exemption - Will support host 
platform requirement
(U) Requirement Source:
Sponsor(s): United States Navy
Capability Production Document, AMDR CPD 
1. 
 Validated By: Joint Requirements Oversight Council, March 26, 2018
 Notes: The AMDR CPD was approved by the JROC on 26 March 2018 (JROCM 025-18). The CPD 
reflects lessons learned from the AMDR EMD Phase and includes updates relative to the AMDR 
CDD. The Pre-EMD DAB's ADM, dated May 21, 2012, directed a change to the program structure 
so that it includes only the AMDR S-band system. This APB represents only the S-band radar 
capabilities from the AMDR CDD/CPD. The X-band capabilities in the AMDR CDD will be 
addressed in a separate future Program of Record.
Capability Development Document, AMDR CDD
2. 
 Validated By: Joint Requirements Oversight Council, June 27, 2013
 Notes: The AMDR CDD was approved by the JROC on June 27, 2013 (JROCM 123-13). Specific 
KPP values have been established in the CDD/CPD and those requirements have been flowed 
down to the AMDR System Requirements Document and the contractor's ASpecification.
 Notes
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars: 1-6. Aligns with AMDR CPD
1. 
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars: The first two performance parameter values, not 
2. 
reflected here, are classified.
The AMDR CDD was approved by the JROC on June 27, 2013 (JROCM 123-13). Specific KPP 
3. 
values have been established in the CDD/CPD and those requirements have been flowed down to 
the AMDR System Requirements Document and the contractor's ASpecification.
The AMDR CPD was approved by the JROC on 26 March 2018 (JROCM 025-18). The CPD reflects 
4. 
lessons learned from the AMDR EMD Phase and includes updates relative to the AMDR CDD. The 
Pre-EMD DAB's ADM, dated May 21, 2012, directed a change to the program structure so that it 
includes only the AMDR S-band system. This APB represents only the S-band radar capabilities 
from the AMDR CDD/CPD. The X-band capabilities in the AMDR CDD will be addressed in a 
separate future Program of Record.
 Performance Deviation Explanation
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Additional information for this section is provided in the classified annex to this submission.
(U) Performance Attributes
Above Horizon Search (AHS) Firm Track Range on Key Driving Threat
KPP
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
18

Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Detection of a representative threat within the radar's 
field of view and a Firm Track Range requirement
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Detection of a representative threat within the radar's 
field of view and a Firm Track Range requirement
2/9/2024
Threshold
Detection of a representative threat within the radar's 
field of view and a Firm Track Range requirement
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Firm Track range of a representative threat within the 
radars field of view. 
Air Traffic Control (ATC) Update Rate
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission
Demonstrated Performance
-
TBD
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
2/9/2024
Threshold
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
Operational Availability (Ao)
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
-
Demonstrated Performance
-
-
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ao>= 0.98
2/9/2024
Threshold
Ao>= 0.98
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Ao>= 0.98
(U) Requirement Source:
Sponsor(s): United States Navy
NCD, Enterprise Requirements Suite (ERS) NCD
1. 
 Validated By: Other, November 29, 2018
 Notes: The Enterprise Radar Suite (ERS) NCD was approved on 29 Nov 2018. The NCD reflects 
inputs from the Capabilities Based Assessment to identify replacement radars for Carriers and 
Amphibious Ships. Specific KPP values have been established in the NCD and those requirements 
have been flowed down to the SPY-6(V)2 System Requirements Document and the contractor's A-
Specification.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
19

 Notes
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars: The first two performance parameter values, not 
reflected here, are classified.
 Performance Deviation Explanation
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Additional information for this section is provided in the classified annex to this submission.
(U) Performance Attributes
Air Traffic Control (ATC) Update Rate
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
Demonstrated Performance
-
-
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
2/9/2024
Threshold
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Track report rate to meet Air Traffic Control mission*
Operational Availability
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
-
Demonstrated Performance
-
-
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Ao>=0.98
2/9/2024
Threshold
Ao>=0.98
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Ao>=0.98
Above Horizon Search (AHS) Firm Track Range on Key Driving Threat
KPP
Current Estimate
12/31/2023
-
Demonstrated Performance
-
-
APB Change 4
(Current)
Objective
Detection of a representative threat within the radars 
field of view and a Firm Track Range requirement
2/9/2024
Threshold
Detection of a representative threat within the radars 
field of view and a Firm Track Range requirement
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
20

APB Version 3
(Milestone)
                          1/3/2023
Objective
Firm track range of a representative threat within the 
radar's field of view
(U) Requirement Source:
Sponsor(s): United States Navy
NCD, Enterprise Requirements Suite (ERS) NCD
1. 
 Validated By: Other, November 29, 2018
 Notes: The Enterprise Radar Suite (ERS) NCD was approved on 29 Nov 2018. The NCD reflects 
inputs from the Capabilities Based Assessment to identify replacement radars for Carriers and 
Amphibious Ships. Specific KPP values have been established in the NCD and those requirements 
have been flowed down to the SPY-6(V)3 System Requirements Document and the contractor's A-
Specification.
 Notes
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars: The first two performance parameter values, not 
reflected here, are classified.
 Performance Deviation Explanation
None
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performance
UNCLASSIFIED
21

(U) Acquisition Budget Estimate
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Total Acquisition Estimates and Quantities
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Change 4
(Milestone)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
PB 2025
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
RDT&E
108.4
108.4
119.3
100.2
139.7
Procurement
4,378.5
4,378.5
4,816.3
4,095.6
6,408.2
Total Acquisition
4,486.9
4,486.9
-
4,195.8
6,547.9
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
179.476
179.476
197.424
167.832
261.916
Average Procurement Unit Cost
175.138
175.138
192.652
163.824
256.328
Program End-Item Quantity
Development
0
0
-
Procurement
25
25
25
O&M-Acquired
-
-
-
 Budget Notes
None
 Quantity Notes
1) This SAR aligns with PB 2025.
 Cost Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Current Procurement Estimate Risks (12/31/2023)
None
Current Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
Original Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Acquisition Budget Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
22

(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Total Acquisition Estimates and Quantities
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
Production APB
(Milestone)
6/30/2017
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
PB 2025
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
RDT&E
1,986.6
1,795.1
1,974.6
1,817.8
1,907.4
Procurement
3,278.3
4,389.9
4,828.9
4,815.3
6,785.1
MILCON
28.6
28.6
31.4
28.6
27.5
O&M
0.0
-
-
-
-
R&MF
-
0.0
0.0
-
-
Total Acquisition
5,293.5
6,213.6
-
6,661.7
8,720.0
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
240.614
230.132
253.145
222.057
290.667
Average Procurement Unit Cost
149.014
162.589
178.848
160.510
226.170
Program End-Item Quantity
Development
0
0
-
Procurement
22
27
30
O&M-Acquired
-
-
-
 Budget Notes
Total procurement cost has increased based on the addition of 3 ship sets (30 vs 27) in comparison 
to the APB.  Also, the cost reflects the support increase impacts of IOT&E extension and projected 
waterfront requirements based on lead ship experience and actuals.
1) Total Acquisition Cost includes RDT&E, Procurement, and Military Construction. Numbers reflect 
PB 2025. 
2) Procurement funding for AMDR is also included in the DDG 51 SAR under Program Element: 
0204222N. AMDR ship-set procured with FY 2016 funds will be used for an FY 2018 FLT III.
3) RDT&E FY 2025 based PB 2025 controls adjustments (+$3.0M). RDT&E associated with efforts 
outside the scope of the original AMDR (AN/SPY-6(V)1) APB (i.e., AN/SPY-6(V)2 and(V)3, DDG 51 
FLT IIA backfit, AN/SPY-6 (V)1A Phase 1 Aspire Hardware Transition and Advanced Distributed 
Radar capability enhancement)) is excluded from this report (i.e., $254.9M in FY 2019-2025). 
However, funding for all AN/SPY-6(V) Family of Radars development is captured under RDT&E 
Program Element 0604522N.
4) APUC Current Estimate includes portion of scope beyond unit cost to deliver and support radar 
equipment (AEGIS BL10 integration and test efforts) that cannot be separated in DAVE - actual 
APUC adjusted to remove this is $158.7M.
 Quantity Notes
1) This SAR aligns with PB 2025.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Acquisition Budget Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
23

 Cost Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Current Procurement Estimate Risks (12/31/2023)
1
In the Milestone C ICE, CAPE identified the risk of production approval absent the completion of planned 
Developmental Testing (DT)-3 activities. There is a risk of discovering issues during testing that could result in 
the need for design changes. Note: The ICE prepared for Milestone C is the most recent ICE. An ICE was not 
prepared for the current estimate.
2
AMDR (BY 2013$M): Total Procurement Cost - $4,815.3; APUC - $158.7* 
*Note that Budget Estimate PB 2025 APUC value was adjusted to exclude activities beyond MS C planned 
efforts which include additional Land Based Testing and System Engineering Baseline 10 efforts.
Risk and Sensitivity analysis - AMDR procurement cost for non-negotiated AMDR units (FY26 and out) and 
DDG FLT III Master Phasing Schedule adjustments
Current Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
Revised Original Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) Total Acquisition Estimates and Quantities
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
PB 2025
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
RDT&E
143.8
143.8
158.1
146.3
177.9
Procurement
471.6
471.6
518.8
486.4
720.2
Total Acquisition
615.4
615.4
-
632.7
898.1
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
47.338
47.337
52.071
42.180
59.873
Average Procurement Unit Cost
36.277
36.278
39.906
32.427
48.013
Program End-Item Quantity
Development
0
0
-
Procurement
13
13
15
O&M-Acquired
-
-
-
 Budget Notes
Total procurement cost has increased based on the addition of 2 ships sets (15 vs 13) in 
comparison to the APB.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Acquisition Budget Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
24

 Quantity Notes
1) This SAR aligns with PB 2025.
 Cost Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Current Procurement Estimate Risks (12/31/2023)
1
SPY-6(V)2 procurement cost for non-negotiated units (FY26 and out) and SPY-6(V)2 platform Master Phasing 
Schedule adjustments
Current Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
Original Baseline Risks (1/3/2023)
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) Total Acquisition Estimates and Quantities
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
PB 2025
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
RDT&E
213.7
213.7
235.1
213.9
266.1
Procurement
1,347.9
1,347.9
1,482.7
1,235.8
2,053.1
Total Acquisition
1,561.6
1,561.5
-
1,449.7
2,319.2
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
65.067
65.064
71.570
57.988
92.768
Average Procurement Unit Cost
56.163
56.161
61.777
49.432
82.124
Program End-Item Quantity
Development
0
0
-
Procurement
24
24
25
O&M-Acquired
-
-
-
 Budget Notes
Total procurement cost has increased based on the addition of 1 ship set (25 vs 24) in comparison 
to the APB.
 Quantity Notes
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Acquisition Budget Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
25

1) This SAR aligns with PB 2025.
 Cost Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
(U) Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
Current Procurement Estimate Risks (12/31/2023)
None
Current Baseline Risks (2/9/2024)
None
Original Baseline Risks (1/3/2023)
None
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Acquisition Budget Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
26

(U) Unit Costs
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Current Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Current Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 4,486.9
 4,195.8
Program Quantity
 25
 25
PAUC
 179.476
 167.832
-6.49%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 4,378.5
 4,095.6
Procurement Quantity
 25
 25
APUC
 175.138
 163.824
-6.46%
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Original Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Original Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 4,486.9
 4,195.8
Program Quantity
 25
 25
PAUC
 179.476
 167.832
-6.49%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 4,378.5
 4,095.6
Procurement Quantity
 25
 25
APUC
 175.138
 163.824
-6.46%
 Notes
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Current Baseline
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Unit Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
27

Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Current Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 6,213.6
 6,661.7
Program Quantity
 27
 30
PAUC
 230.132
 222.057
-3.51%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 4,389.9
 4,815.3
Procurement Quantity
 27
 30
APUC
 162.589
 160.510
-1.28%
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Original Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Original Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 6,213.6
 6,661.7
Program Quantity
 27
 30
PAUC
 230.132
 222.057
-3.51%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 4,389.9
 4,815.3
Procurement Quantity
 27
 30
APUC
 162.589
 160.510
-1.28%
(U) Cost Growth Details
 Impacts of Schedule Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
 Impacts of Performance Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
 Actions taken or Proposed to Control Future Cost Growth
Competition and Second Sourcing for top hardware drivers in the next Hardware Procurement & Sustainment (HP&S) 
contract (FY26 and out).
 Status of Each Major Contract and Significant Factors Contributing to Cost and Schedule Variance; Projected Effects 
on Future Program Costs
See Contracts section.
 Notes
APUC Current Estimate includes portion of scope beyond unit cost to deliver and support radar 
equipment (AEGIS BL10 integration and test efforts) that cannot be separated in DAVE - actual 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Unit Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
28

APUC adjusted to remove this is $158.7M.
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Current Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Current Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 615.4
 632.7
Program Quantity
 13
 15
PAUC
 47.337
 42.180
-10.89%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 471.6
 486.4
Procurement Quantity
 13
 15
APUC
 36.278
 32.427
-10.62%
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Original Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Original Baseline
01/03/2023
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 615.4
 632.7
Program Quantity
 13
 15
PAUC
 47.338
 42.180
-10.90%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 471.6
 486.4
Procurement Quantity
 13
 15
APUC
 36.277
 32.427
-10.61%
(U) Cost Growth Details
 Impacts of Schedule Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
 Impacts of Performance Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
 Actions taken or Proposed to Control Future Cost Growth
N/A
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Unit Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
29

 Status of Each Major Contract and Significant Factors Contributing to Cost and Schedule Variance; Projected Effects 
on Future Program Costs
See Contracts section.
 Notes
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Current Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Current Baseline
02/09/2024
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 1,561.5
 1,449.7
Program Quantity
 24
 25
PAUC
 65.064
 57.988
-10.88%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 1,347.9
 1,235.8
Procurement Quantity
 24
 25
APUC
 56.161
 49.432
-11.98%
(U)  Current Estimate Compared with Original Baseline
Category (CY$M) Base Year: 2013
Original Baseline
01/03/2023
Current Estimate
PB 2025
% Change
Program Acquisition Unit Cost
Acquisition Cost
 1,561.6
 1,449.7
Program Quantity
 24
 25
PAUC
 65.067
 57.988
-10.88%
Average Procurement Unit Cost
Procurement Cost
 1,347.9
 1,235.8
Procurement Quantity
 24
 25
APUC
 56.163
 49.432
-11.98%
(U) Cost Growth Details
 Impacts of Schedule Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Unit Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
30

 Impacts of Performance Changes on Unit Cost
N/A
 Actions taken or Proposed to Control Future Cost Growth
N/A
 Status of Each Major Contract and Significant Factors Contributing to Cost and Schedule Variance; Projected Effects 
on Future Program Costs
See Contracts section.
 Notes
None
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Unit Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
31

(U) Life-Cycle Costs
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Operating and Support and Disposal Cost Estimates Compared with Baseline
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Change 4
(Milestone)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
Total O&S
2,584.6
2,584.6
2,843.1
2,601.4
4,789.4
Total Disposal
-
-
-
19.3
-
(U) Current Cost Estimate Sources
Operating and Support Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, April 09, 2024
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, February 27, 2023
 Operating and Support Baseline Deviation Explanation
None
 Cost Notes
Increases in the SPY-6 (V)4 radar system estimate from the APB to the current estimate are 
primarily due to Land Based Test Site Support, and inclusive of PB25 inflation indices.
For SPY-6 (V)4, Unit-Level Manpower, Unit Operations, and Indirect Support are not reported 
because these costs are considered Ship Level costs. Current Estimate includes System Operations 
and Maintenance, Navy (OMN) (TY $3,200.9M, BY 2013 $1,773.8M) and Fleet OMN (TY $1,588.6M, 
BY 2013 $827.6M).
Estimated Disposal/Demilitarization cost for 25 SPY-6(V)4 systems following decommission dates.
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost Estimate and Source of Estimate: $19.2 (BY$ Million), Source of 
Estimate POE
(U) Operating and Support Variance with Prior Estimate
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
Prior Estimate (2/13/2023)
2,584.6
Current Estimate
2,601.4
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
32

(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
 
Category
Variance
Explanation
Unit-Level Manpower
-
Unit Operations
-
Maintenance
16.8
Additional FY26 LBTS support
Sustaining Support
-
Continuing System 
Improvements
-
Other
-
 
Not Categorized
0.0
(U) Operating and Support Cost Element Structure Estimates by Acquired System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)4
-
-
926.2
1,495.9
179.3
-
2,601.4
Program
-
-
926.2
1,495.9
179.3
-
2,601.4
(U) Annual Operating and Support Costs per Unit Compared with Antecedent System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)4
-
-
1.7
2.7
0.3
-
4.7
AN/SPY-1D(V) 
(Antecedent)
-
-
2.5
1.5
1.4
-
5.4
(U) Operating and Support Cost Estimate Assumptions
System
Quantity to Sustain
Unit Expected Service 
Life (Years)
Unit of Measure
Fiscal Years 
Operational
AN/SPY-6(V)4
25
22.0
Radar System
2025 - 2066
AN/SPY-1D(V)
(Antecedent)
32
35.0
Radar System
2004 - 2056
 Additional O&S Estimate Assumptions
Each AMDR System includes four fully populated AMDR-S array faces and a Radar Suite Controller.
The O&S Cost Estimate has been updated and aligns to the SAR submission and reflects PB25 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
33

controls.
 Antecedent Estimate Assumptions
The antecedent system is AN/SPY-1D(V). AN/SPY-1D(V) has fielded 32 systems, each with a 
planned service life of 35 years. The source of the cost estimate is the Naval Sea Systems 
Command Systems  Engineering Directorate - Cost Engineering and Industrial Analysis Division AN/
SPY-1D(V) FRP ICE dated November 14, 2011 with the following adjustment: incorporated same 
forward pricing rate  recommendation (FPRR) escalation rate as AMDR and added hardware 
modification costs based on percentage allocation of AEGIS weapon system MK-7 hardware 
modification cost. The AN/SPY-1D(V) Sustaining Support cost element does not include costs for 
Operating Equipment Replacement, whereas AMDR does.
 O&S Annual Cost Calculation Memo
Total System O&S [BY 2013 $2,601.3M] = unitized cost [BY 2013 $4.730M] * number of systems [25] 
* service life per system [22].
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Operating and Support and Disposal Cost Estimates Compared with Baseline
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
Production 
APB
(Milestone)
6/30/2017
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
Total O&S
3,821.4
5,461.7
6,007.9
6,052.7*
13,715.4
Total Disposal
-
0.0
-
21.4
-
* Baseline Deviation
(U) Current Cost Estimate Sources
Operating and Support Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, PAPM Advanced Radars, April 09, 2024
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, February 27, 2023
 Operating and Support Baseline Deviation Explanation
Increases in the SPY-6 (V)1 radar system estimate from the APB to the current estimate are 
primarily due to change in profile (addition of 3 ships). Other changes include: Land Based Test Site 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
34

Support addition, inclusive of PB25 inflation indices, cost estimating methodology modifications, 
and design maturity.
 Cost Notes
For SPY-6(V)1, Unit-Level Manpower, Unit Operations, and Indirect Support are not reported because 
these costs are considered Ship Level costs. Current Estimate includes System Operations and 
Maintenance, Navy (OMN) (TY $13,240.5M, BY 2013 $5,854.0M) and Fleet OMN (TY $479.9M, BY 
2013 $198.7).
Estimated Disposal/Demilitarization cost for 30 SPY-6(V)1 systems following decommission dates.
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost Estimate and Source of Estimate: $21.4 (BY$Million), Source of 
Estimate POE
(U) Operating and Support Variance with Prior Estimate
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
Prior Estimate (3/16/2023)
5,461.7
Current Estimate
6,052.7
 
Category
Variance
Explanation
Unit-Level Manpower
-
Unit Operations
-
Maintenance
288.5
Profile Adjustment, and addition of Land Based Test Site 
(LBTS) support through FYDP
Sustaining Support
322.3
Profile Adjustment, and New Depot Maintenance 
support (Test Set Maintenance)
Continuing System 
Improvements
-19.8
New Ship Integration and Test Suite (SITS) Licenses & 
additional decrease due to the removal of HIDS License 
requirement
Other
-
 
Not Categorized
0.0
(U) Operating and Support Cost Element Structure Estimates by Acquired System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)1
-
-
2,407.2
3,171.3
474.2
-
6,052.7
Program
-
-
2,407.2
3,171.3
474.2
-
6,052.7
(U) Annual Operating and Support Costs per Unit Compared with Antecedent System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
35

System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)1
-
-
2.0
2.6
0.4
-
5.0
AN/SPY-1D(V) 
(Antecedent)
-
-
2.5
1.5
1.4
-
5.4
(U) Operating and Support Cost Estimate Assumptions
System
Quantity to Sustain
Unit Expected Service 
Life (Years)
Unit of Measure
Fiscal Years 
Operational
AN/SPY-6(V)1
30
40.0
Ship Set
2021 - 2079
AN/SPY-1D(V)
(Antecedent)
32
35.0
Ship Set
2004 - 2056
 Additional O&S Estimate Assumptions
Each AMDR System includes four fully populated AMDR-S array faces and a Radar Suite Controller.
The O&S Cost Estimate has been updated and aligns to the SAR submission and reflects PB25 
controls.
 Antecedent Estimate Assumptions
The antecedent system is AN/SPY-1D(V). AN/SPY-1D(V) has fielded 32 systems, each with a 
planned service life of 35 years. The source of the cost estimate is the Naval Sea Systems 
Command Systems  Engineering Directorate - Cost Engineering and Industrial Analysis Division AN/
SPY-1D(V) FRP ICE dated November 14, 2011 with the following adjustment: incorporated same 
forward pricing rate  recommendation (FPRR) escalation rate as AMDR and added hardware 
modification costs based on percentage allocation of AEGIS weapon system MK-7 hardware 
modification cost. The AN/SPY-1D(V) Sustaining Support cost element does not include costs for 
Operating Equipment Replacement, whereas AMDR does.
 O&S Annual Cost Calculation Memo
Total System O&S [BY 2013 $6,052.7M] = unitized cost [BY 2013 $5.044M] * number of systems [30] 
* service life per system [40].
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) Operating and Support and Disposal Cost Estimates Compared with Baseline
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
CY$ obs
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Current Estimate
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
36

Objective
Objective / Threshold
Total O&S
733.1
733.1
806.4
1,088.5*
2,361.9
Total Disposal
-
-
-
1.7
-
* Baseline Deviation
(U) Current Cost Estimate Sources
Operating and Support Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, PAPM Advanced Radars, April 09, 2024
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, February 27, 2023
 Operating and Support Baseline Deviation Explanation
Increases in the SPY-6 (V)2 radar system estimate from the APB to the current estimate are due to 
PB24 SAR cost estimating methodology modifications (tech refresh cycle length adjusted from 8 
year to 6 years, and Activity FTE support refinements), including PB25 increases due to  Land Based 
Test Site Support, inflation indices, change in profile (addition of 1 ships), and design maturity.
 Cost Notes
O&S data has been updated to align with the December 2022 SAR submission.  
For SPY-6(V)2, Unit-Level Manpower, Unit Operations, and Indirect Support are not reported because 
these costs are considered Ship Level costs. Current Estimate includes System Operations and 
Maintenance, Navy (OMN) (TY $2,241.9M, BY 2013 $1,035.3M) and Fleet OMN (TY $120.0M, BY 
2013 $53.2M).
Estimated Disposal/Demilitarization cost for 15 SPY-6(V)2 systems following decommission dates.
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost Estimate and Source of Estimate: $1.7 (BY$Million), Source of 
Estimate POE
(U) Operating and Support Variance with Prior Estimate
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
Prior Estimate (3/16/2023)
952.5
Current Estimate
1,088.5
 
Category
Variance
Explanation
Unit-Level Manpower
-
Unit Operations
-
Maintenance
39.1
Profile Adjustment, and additional LBTS support through 
FYDP
Sustaining Support
112.6
Profile Adjustment & New Depot Maintenance support 
(Test Set Maintenance)
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
37

(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
Continuing System 
Improvements
-15.6
New SITS Licenses & additional decrease due to the 
removal of HIDS License requirement)
Other
-
 
Not Categorized
-0.1
(U) Operating and Support Cost Element Structure Estimates by Acquired System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)2
-
-
184.4
773.8
130.3
-
1,088.5
Program
-
-
184.4
773.8
130.3
-
1,088.5
(U) Annual Operating and Support Costs per Unit Compared with Antecedent System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)2
-
-
0.3
1.5
0.2
-
2.1
(U) Operating and Support Cost Estimate Assumptions
System
Quantity to Sustain
Unit Expected Service 
Life (Years)
Unit of Measure
Fiscal Years 
Operational
AN/SPY-6(V)2
15
35.2
Radar System
2021 - 2078
 Additional O&S Estimate Assumptions
Each EASR System includes one fully populated EASR-S rotating array face and a Radar Suite 
Controller.
 Antecedent Estimate Assumptions
The antecedent system is AN/SPY-1D(V). AN/SPY-1D(V) has fielded 32 systems, each with a 
planned service life of 35 years. The source of the cost estimate is the Naval Sea Systems 
Command Systems  Engineering Directorate - Cost Engineering and Industrial Analysis Division AN/
SPY-1D(V) FRP ICE dated November 14, 2011 with the following adjustment: incorporated same 
forward pricing rate  recommendation (FPRR) escalation rate as AMDR and added hardware 
modification costs based on percentage allocation of AEGIS weapon system MK-7 hardware 
modification cost. The AN/SPY-1D(V) Sustaining Support cost element does not include costs for 
Operating Equipment Replacement, whereas AMDR does.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
38

 O&S Annual Cost Calculation Memo
Total System O&S [BY 2013 $1,088.5M] = unitized cost [BY 2013 $2.062M] * number of systems [15] 
* service life per system [35.2].
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) Operating and Support and Disposal Cost Estimates Compared with Baseline
Category ($M)    Base Year: 2013
APB Version 3
(Milestone)
1/3/2023
CY$ obs
Objective
APB Change 4
(Current)
2/9/2024
CY$ obs
Objective / Threshold
Current Estimate
CY$ obs / TY$ obs 
Total O&S
2,123.6
2,123.6
2,336.0
2,406.9*
6,674.1
Total Disposal
-
-
-
6.4
-
* Baseline Deviation
(U) Current Cost Estimate Sources
Operating and Support Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, PAPM Advanced Radars, April 09, 2024
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost
Type:  Program Office Estimate
Approved by:  Steve Hoerst, February 27, 2023
 Operating and Support Baseline Deviation Explanation
Increases in the SPY-6 (V)3 radar system estimate from the APB to the current estimate are due to 
PB24 SAR cost estimating methodology modifications (tech refresh cycle length adjusted from 8 
year to 6 years, and Activity FTE support refinements), including PB25 increases due to  Land Based 
Test Site Support, inflation indices, change in profile (addition of 1 ships), and design maturity.
 Cost Notes
For SPY-6 (V)3, Unit-Level Manpower, Unit Operations, and Indirect Support are not reported 
because these costs are considered Ship Level costs. Current Estimate includes System Operations 
and Maintenance, Navy (OMN) (TY $6,455.2M, BY 2013 $2,327.3M) and Fleet OMN (TY $218.8M, BY 
2013 $79.6M).
Disposal/Demilitarization Cost Estimate and Source of Estimate: $6.4 (BY$Million), Source of 
Estimate POE
Estimated Disposal/Demilitarization cost for 25 SPY-6(V)3 systems following decommission dates.
(U) Operating and Support Variance with Prior Estimate
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
39

(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
Estimate
Prior Estimate (3/16/2023)
2,251.6
Current Estimate
2,406.9
 
Category
Variance
Explanation
Unit-Level Manpower
-
Unit Operations
-
Maintenance
14.5
Profile Adjustment, and additional LBTS support through 
FYDP
Sustaining Support
170.1
Profile Adjustment & New Depot Maintenance support 
(Test Set Maintenance)
Continuing System 
Improvements
-29.3
New SITS Licenses & additional decrease due to the 
removal of HIDS License requirement)
Other
-
 
Not Categorized
0.0
(U) Operating and Support Cost Element Structure Estimates by Acquired System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)3
-
-
452.7
1,628.7
325.5
-
2,406.9
Program
-
-
452.7
1,628.7
325.5
-
2,406.9
(U) Annual Operating and Support Costs per Unit Compared with Antecedent System
(CY$M)  Base Year:  2013
System
Unit-Level 
Manpower
Unit 
Operations
Maintenance
Sustaining 
Support
Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total
AN/SPY-6(V)3
-
-
0.5
1.9
0.4
-
2.9
(U) Operating and Support Cost Estimate Assumptions
System
Quantity to Sustain
Unit Expected Service 
Life (Years)
Unit of Measure
Fiscal Years 
Operational
AN/SPY-6(V)3
25
33.8
Radar System
2024 - 2112
 Additional O&S Estimate Assumptions
The O&S Cost Estimate has been updated and aligns to the SAR submission and reflects PB25 
controls.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
40

 Antecedent Estimate Assumptions
The antecedent system is AN/SPY-1D(V). AN/SPY-1D(V) has fielded 32 systems, each with a 
planned service life of 35 years. The source of the cost estimate is the Naval Sea Systems 
Command Systems  Engineering Directorate - Cost Engineering and Industrial Analysis Division AN/
SPY-1D(V) FRP ICE dated November 14, 2011 with the following adjustment: incorporated same 
forward pricing rate  recommendation (FPRR) escalation rate as AMDR and added hardware 
modification costs based on percentage allocation of AEGIS weapon system MK-7 hardware 
modification cost. The AN/SPY-1D(V) Sustaining Support cost element does not include costs for 
Operating Equipment Replacement, whereas AMDR does.
 O&S Annual Cost Calculation Memo
Total System O&S [BY 2013 $2,406.9M] = unitized cost [BY 2013 $2.853M] * number of systems [25] 
* service life per system [33.8].
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Life-Cycle Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
41

(U) Technologies and Systems Engineering
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Current Significant Technical Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
3/26/2024
Performance Testing:  SPY-6(V)4 will have to accomplish developmental testing 
before fielding. Backfit performance testing will include demonstration of 
performance in a live environment (clutter attenuation, sensitivity, low-E 
accuracy, search rasters, beamwidths, EA/EP, missile support, etc). If sufficient 
full array live radar testing cannot be accomplished prior to installation on-
board ship, then delays will be incurred aboard the first backfit ship to verify 
residual requirements and operational testing, which could lead to a slip in 
return to fleet and the potential that some requirements are not met.
Current
3/26/2024
Power Integration: The (V)4 Power System will be a unique configuration with 
the addition of newly designed Power Combiner and Distribution Unit and Prime 
Power Equipment from EASR. If power integration issues associated with 
power ripple cause failures on DDG 91, then additional time and cost will be 
needed to address defects in the power system and/or power system may not 
meet all requirements
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Current Significant Technical Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/2/2021
Electronic Protection: Radar systems employing active array technology and 
coherent waveforms are susceptible to deceptive EA. If a well-tested initial 
deceptive EP architecture and capability is not delivered as part of BL 10.0, then 
the Flight III Combat System will be vulnerable to deceptive EA threats, 
negatively impacting DT/OT
Current
12/2/2021
Electromagnetic Interference: AMDR is required to operate in a congested S-
Band environment and must be compatible with other co-site and off-board RF 
systems. If Electromagnetic isolation between AMDR and other 
electromagnetic dependent systems on the ship's topside and in the onboard 
environment cannot be achieved, then Electromagnetic CONOPS may be 
required to successfully integrate AMDR with other co-located equipment and/
or topside design changes may be needed to the various ship classes.
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) Current Significant Technical Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Technologies and Systems 
Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
42

Event
Date
Description
Current
12/14/2022
Power Management Testing and Ship Power Model: If the common power 
requirements (SPY-6(V)2 and (V)3) are not verified at the LBTS and on-board 
ship and behavior of EASR is not accurately modeled, then the operational 
power monitoring guidance similar to DBR must be implemented to include pre- 
approval on ships power of s/w run requests and suspending radar operations 
until observed non-compliances are root caused (exception for Flight Ops). This 
could result in increased cost and significant schedule delays. 
Current
12/14/2022
Out-of-Band Emissions Compliance: If electromagnetic isolation between 
SPY-6(V)2/3's out-of-band emissions and other electromagnetic dependent 
systems on the ship's topside and in the on-board environment cannot be 
achieved, then electromagnetic CONOPS may be required to successfully 
integrate SPY-6(V)2/3 with other collocated equipment and/or topside design 
changes may be needed to the various ship classes.
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) Current Significant Technical Risks and Risks Identified at Milestones/Decisions
Event
Date
Description
Current
12/14/2022
Power Management Testing and Ship Power Model: If the common power 
requirements (SPY-6(V)2 and (V)3) are not verified at the LBTS and on-board 
ship and behavior of EASR is not accurately modeled, then the operational 
power monitoring guidance similar to DBR must be implemented to include pre- 
approval on ships power of s/w run requests and suspending radar operations 
until observed non-compliances are root caused (exception for Flight Ops). This 
could result in increased cost and significant schedule delays. 
Current
12/14/2022
Out-of-Band Emissions Compliance: If electromagnetic isolation between 
SPY-6(V)2/3's out-of-band emissions and other electromagnetic dependent 
systems on the ship's topside and in the on-board environment cannot be 
achieved, then electromagnetic CONOPS may be required to successfully 
integrate SPY-6(V)2/3 with other collocated equipment and/or topside design 
changes may be needed to the various ship classes.
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Technologies and Systems 
Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
43

(U) Performing Activities and Contracts
(U) External Government Activities
None
(U) Contracts and Efforts
Contract Title
Contract Number / Effort
Contractor
Phase
AMDR Integration and 
Production Support (I&PS)
N00024-19-C-5501 / 6
Raytheon Company
Production
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-19-C-5501
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR Integration and 
Production Support (I&PS)
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
-
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
6
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
December 8, 2018
Latest Modification Date:
March 21, 2024
Definitization Date:
December 18, 2018
Latest Modification No.:
P00073
Work Start Date:
December 8, 2018
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
The program will not be collecting EVM data on the I&PS contract because it is 
1. 
exclusively level of effort. The program will collect monthly cost data on planned and 
actual dollars and hours by tasking to assess and manage Contractor performance.
The table above reflects incremental funding for exercised options. Contract includes 
2. 
options that were extended through FY 2024.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
-
-
360.7
360.7
-
-
-
-
-
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) External Government Activities
None
(U) Contracts and Efforts
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
44

Contract Title
Contract Number / Effort
Contractor
Phase
AMDR Backfit HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 1
N00024-22-C-5500 / 1
Raytheon Company
Production
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR Backfit HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 1
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
1
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Fixed-Price Incentive (Firm 
Target)
Award Date:
March 29, 2023
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 30, 2023
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR to be conducted on November 8, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY2 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 2004AA for 
2. 
DDG 91.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
147.9
156.4
147.9
156.4
136.6
136.6
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
37.50%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-7.5
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+22.8
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) External Government Activities
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
45

None
(U) Contracts and Efforts
Contract Title
Contract Number / Effort
Contractor
Phase
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 1
N00024-22-C-5500 / 11
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 2
N00024-22-C-5500 / 12
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 3
N00024-22-C-5500 / 13
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AA)
N00024-14-C-5315 / 5
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AB)
N00024-14-C-5315 / 7
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AC)
N00024-14-C-5315 / 8
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0602AA)
N00024-14-C-5315 / 9
Raytheon Company
Production
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 1
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
11
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 31, 2022
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 31, 2022
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 31, 2022
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR was conducted on March 22, 2023 for BY of the HP&S contract.
1. 
Data reflects the BY efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN B0001AA for 
2. 
DDG 135, CLIN B0001AB for DDG 136, CLIN B0001AC for DDG 137, CLIN B0019 for 
CSEDS and CLIN B0027 for NRE.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
579.6
615.5
579.6
615.5
605.8
600.6
3
3
-
Work Completed (%):
71.19%
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
46

Cost Variance (TY$M):
-48.5
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+40.8
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 2
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
12
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
May 23, 2022
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
May 23, 2022
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
May 23, 2022
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR conducted on March 22, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY1 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 1001AA for 
2. 
DDG 138 and CLIN 1001AB for DDG 139.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
322.5
371.3
322.5
371.3
362.8
357.5
2
2
-
Work Completed (%):
46.55%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-20.8
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+22.0
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
47

Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR HP&S Increment 1 
Effort 3
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
13
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 30, 2023
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR to be conducted on November 8, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY2 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 2001AA for 
2. 
DDG 140 and CLIN 2001AB for DDG 141.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
383.5
405.5
383.5
405.5
401.4
389.7
2
2
-
Work Completed (%):
26.27%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
+3.9
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+11.2
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-14-C-5315
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AA)
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
5
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification Date:
September 21, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification No.:
110
Work Start Date:
March 14, 2019
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
48

Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
On 14 MAR 2019 Excercised LRP option (CLIN0503AA): $123,320,400.
1. 
IBR conducted on 22 Oct 2019 for LRIP units 5 through 7.
2. 
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 15 March 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 29 February 2024.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
123.3
137.0
123.3
137.0
137.0
137.0
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
99.82%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-32.1
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
-0.2
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-14-C-5315
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AB)
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
7
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification Date:
September 21, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification No.:
110
Work Start Date:
March 14, 2019
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
On 14 MAR 2019 Exercised LRIP option (CLIN0503AB): $122,672,151.
1. 
IBR conducted on 22 Oct 2019 for LRIP units 5 through 7.
2. 
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 15 March 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 29 February 2024.
Despite the contract being awarded on 11 MAR 2019, the initial LRIP option which 
4. 
included the initial funding increment was not provided until three days later on 14 
MAR 2019 (definitization date).
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
122.7
136.3
122.7
136.3
136.3
136.3
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
98.80%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-31.4
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
49

Schedule Variance (TY$M):
-1.4
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-14-C-5315
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0503AC)
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
8
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification Date:
September 21, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 14, 2019
Latest Modification No.:
110
Work Start Date:
March 14, 2019
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
On March 14, 2019 LRIP option (CLIN0503AC) was exercised: $156,665,464.  
1. 
IBR conducted on October 22, 2019 for LRIP units five through seven. 
2. 
EVM table based on Integrated Program Management Report (IPMR) delivered 15 
3. 
March 2024 and reflects performance through 29 February 2024.
Cost for this shipset reflects a single buy purchase.
4. 
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
156.7
174.1
156.7
174.1
173.5
164.7
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
96.78%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-13.3
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
-4.4
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
Negative Cost Variance of ($13.2M) from CLIN 0503AC due to primarily by price variance increases over plan (DREX, 
RF Head), and Radio Frequency (RF) Head Advanced Process Center (APC) Circulators IOT driven by higher cost per 
wafer, lower yield, and unfavorable assembly allowance.
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
Negative Schedule Variance of ($4.4M) for CLIN 0503AC due to positive cumulative schedule burn down for early 
receipt of material (DREXs).
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-14-C-5315
Order Number:
-
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
50

Contract Title:
AMDR Low Rate Initial 
Production (CLIN 0602AA)
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
9
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
December 20, 2019
Latest Modification Date:
September 21, 2023
Definitization Date:
December 20, 2019
Latest Modification No.:
110
Work Start Date:
December 20, 2019
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
On 20 DEC 2019 AMDR exercised contract options for two LRIP units and associated 
1. 
nonrecurring engineering.
IBR conducted on 19 Nov 2020 for LRIP units 8 and 9.
2. 
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 15 March 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 29 February 2024.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
125.2
139.1
125.2
139.1
139.1
139.1
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
96.57%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-32.6
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
-3.8
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
Negative Cost Variance of ($32.6M) for CLIN 0602AA is driven mainly by material price variances over bid (DREXs, 
RF Head) and performance update (RF Head, DC to DC Converters).
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
Negative Schedule Variance of ($3.8M) for CLIN 0602AA driven by material distribution (pegging) off of the shipset 
(DC to DC Converters) and positive cumulative schedule burn down for early receipt material (Mechanical Structure, 
Radome/Radiator).
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) External Government Activities
None
(U) Contracts and Efforts
Contract Title
Contract Number / Effort
Contractor
Phase
EASR Rotating Radar HP&S 
Effort 1
N00024-22-C-5500 / 5
Raytheon Company
Production
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
51

EASR Rotating Radar HP&S 
Effort 2
N00024-22-C-5500 / 6
Raytheon Company
Production
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
EASR Rotating Radar HP&S 
Effort 1
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
5
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
May 23, 2022
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
May 23, 2022
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
May 23, 2022
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR to be conducted on November 8, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY2 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 2002AA for 
2. 
LHA 10 and CLIN 2002AB for LPD 32.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
35.7
38.9
35.7
38.9
38.9
38.9
2
2
-
Work Completed (%):
67.31%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-9.0
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+1.5
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
EASR Rotating Radar HP&S 
Effort 2
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
6
Supported Phase:
Production
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
52

Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 30, 2023
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR to be conducted on November 8, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY2 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 2002AA for 
2. 
LHA 10 and CLIN 2002AB for LPD 32.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS. 
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
35.4
38.6
35.4
38.6
38.6
38.6
2
2
-
Work Completed (%):
25.76%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-4.9
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+2.6
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) External Government Activities
None
(U) Contracts and Efforts
Contract Title
Contract Number / Effort
Contractor
Phase
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 1
N00024-22-C-5500 / 3
Raytheon Company
Production
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 2
N00024-22-C-5500 / 4
Raytheon Company
Production
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 3
N00024-22-C-5500 / 5
Raytheon Company
Production
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
53

Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 1
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
3
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 31, 2022
Latest Modification Date:
August 4, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 31, 2022
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 31, 2022
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR conducted on March 22, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the BY efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN B0003AA for 
2. 
CVN 80 and CLIN B0003AB for FFG 63.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
71.2
77.7
71.2
77.7
77.7
77.7
2
2
-
Work Completed (%):
68.19%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-24.7
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
-3.3
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 2
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
4
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
May 23, 2022
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 31, 2023
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 31, 2023
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
54

Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR conducted on March 22, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY1 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 1003AA for FFG 
2. 
64.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
37.4
40.8
37.4
40.8
40.8
40.8
1
1
-
Work Completed (%):
130.15%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-24.7
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+28.9
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
(U) Contract and Effort Identification, Price, Quantity and Performance
Contract Number:
N00024-22-C-5500
Order Number:
-
Contract Title:
EASR Fixed Face HP&S 
Increment 1 Effort 3
Strategy:
-
CAGE:
70U39 - Raytheon Company
Contracting Office:
SEA 02
City, State/Province:
Marlborough, MA
Effort Number:
5
Supported Phase:
Production
Type:
Cost Plus Fixed Fee
Award Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification Date:
August 3, 2023
Definitization Date:
March 30, 2023
Latest Modification No.:
10
Work Start Date:
March 30, 2023
Technical Data Rights:
-
Notes:
IBR to be conducted on November 8, 2023.
1. 
Data reflects the OY1 efforts on the HP&S contract that include CLIN 2003AA for FFG 
2. 
65.
EVM table based on IPMR delivered 23 February 2024 and reflects performance 
3. 
through 31 January 2024.  Month-end January, 2024 is the most recent Hardware, 
Procurement and Support contract EV data available given RTX has requested and 
granted CDRL relief to their A047 IPMDAR data for month end January, 2024 while 
they work to create their Baseline for OY2 CLINS.
Initial Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Current Price (TY$M)
 Target / Ceiling
Est. Price at Completion (TY$M)
 Contractor / PM
Initial
Quantity
Current
Quantity
Delivered
Quantity
52.5
55.5
52.5
55.5
55.5
54.6
1
1
-
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
55

Work Completed (%):
191.72%
Cost Variance (TY$M):
-1.2
Schedule Variance (TY$M):
+7.6
Factors Contributing to Cost Variance and Projected Effects on Program Costs
None
Factors Contributing to Schedule Variance and Projected Effects on Program Schedule
None
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Performing Activities and 
Contracts
UNCLASSIFIED
56

(U) Production
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
No Data
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Low-Rate Initial Production
Original LRIP Determination
Current LRIP Determination
Total LRIP Quantity
16
30
Date
10/4/2013
7/20/2023
Reference
Milestone B ADM
Air and Missile Defense Radar ADM 
AN-SPY-6(V) Subprogram LRIP 
Quantities
LRIP Period
FY 2016 - 2024
FY 2016 - 2024
Total Procurement Quantity
16
30
LRIP Percentage of Total
100.0%
100.0%
 Rationale if LRIP Quantity Exceeds 10% of Total Procurement Quantity (Current Determination)
The Current Total LRIP Quantity is more than 10% of the total production quantity due to timing of 
Initial Operational Test and Evaluation, IOC, and the need to meet the shipbuilding plan. The Air and 
Missile Defense Radar ADM AN-SPY-6(V)1 Subprogram LRIP Quantities dated July 7, 2023 included 
approval for a planned LRIP quantity not to exceed 30 units.
 LRIP Notes
AMDR FoR LRIP agreement established 10/4/2013 did not include quantities for (V)2 EASR and (V)3 
EASR FF.
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
No Data
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
No Data
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Production
UNCLASSIFIED
57

(U) Deliveries and Expenditures
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
(U) Acquisition Funding
Total Estimate
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent Complete
Years Appropriated
22
4
18.2%
Appropriations (TY, $M)
6,547.9
374.8
5.7%
Expenditures (TY, $M)
6,547.9
89.7
1.4%
(U) End Items Delivered
Total Required
Planned to Date
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent
Complete
Procurement
25
Total
25
-
-
-
 Notes
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
(U) Acquisition Funding
Total Estimate
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent Complete
Years Appropriated
25
19
76.0%
Appropriations (TY, $M)
8,720.0
5,870.6
67.3%
Expenditures (TY, $M)
8,720.0
4,559.7
52.3%
(U) End Items Delivered
Total Required
Planned to Date
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent
Complete
Procurement
30
AN/SPY-6(V)1
7
7
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Deliveries and Expenditures
UNCLASSIFIED
58

Total Required
Planned to Date
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent
Complete
Total
30
7
7
23.3%
 Notes
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
(U) Acquisition Funding
Total Estimate
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent Complete
Years Appropriated
17
10
58.8%
Appropriations (TY, $M)
898.1
519.4
57.8%
Expenditures (TY, $M)
898.1
276.2
30.7%
(U) End Items Delivered
Total Required
Planned to Date
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent
Complete
Procurement
15
AN/SPY-6(V)2
4
4
Total
15
4
4
26.7%
 Notes
None
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
(U) Acquisition Funding
Total Estimate
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent Complete
Years Appropriated
22
10
45.5%
Appropriations (TY, $M)
2,319.2
742.2
32.0%
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Deliveries and Expenditures
UNCLASSIFIED
59

Expenditures (TY, $M)
2,319.2
391.1
16.9%
(U) End Items Delivered
Total Required
Planned to Date
Actual to Date
Actual, Percent
Complete
Procurement
25
AN/SPY-6(V)3
2
2
Total
25
2
2
8.0%
 Notes
None
 
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
Deliveries and Expenditures
UNCLASSIFIED
60

(U) International Program Aspects
 General Memo
None
 Exportability and Business Issues
No issues.
Is design for international exportability 
planned?
Yes
Industry/Partner Exportability Cost-Sharing?
No
 Program Protection: Technology Security and Foreign Disclosure Issues
TTSARB policy exists, however a new TTSARB that replaces stale existing policy is done and in 
coordination by NIPO prior to TTSARB vote this summer.
We think we're in good shape overall; TSC engagement will be required for specific releasability 
aspects.
Assuming the program's current program protection design is implemented when have the first 
case, the NRE cost risk is low-medium until tested.
(U) Agreements
No International Agreements have been defined for AMDR FoR
(U) Air and Missile Defense Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
 General Memo
None
 Exportability and Business Issues
No issues.
Is design for international exportability 
planned?
No
Industry/Partner Exportability Cost-Sharing?
No
 Program Protection: Technology Security and Foreign Disclosure Issues
No issues.
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
International Program Aspects
UNCLASSIFIED
61

(U) Agreements
No International Agreements have been defined for AMDR Backfit - AN/SPY-6(V)4
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
 General Memo
None
 Exportability and Business Issues
No issues.
Is design for international exportability 
planned?
Yes
Industry/Partner Exportability Cost-Sharing?
No
 Program Protection: Technology Security and Foreign Disclosure Issues
TTSARB policy exists, however a new TTSARB that replaces stale existing policy is done and in 
coordination by NIPO prior to TTSARB vote this summer.
We think we're in good shape overall; TSC engagement will be required for specific releasability 
aspects.
Assuming the program's current program protection design is implemented when have the first 
case, the NRE cost risk is low-medium until tested.
(U) Agreements
Activity Date
Type
Agreement Number
International Partner(s)
Quantity
Funding (TY$M)
10/1/2013
ICPA
N-05-0042
Australia (AT)
-
-
(U) Agreement Information
Partner(s):
Australia (AT)
Activity Date:
10/1/2013
Type:
International Cooperative Project Agreement/Arrangement
Agreement Number:
N-05-0042
Notes:
Australia/US Phased Array Radar (AUSPAR) Project Arrangement (PA) extended 18 months in October 
2013. 
International Cooperation (IC). AUSPAR Project completed on 31 Mar 2015. 
Australia (AT)
Fiscal Year
Funding (TY$M)
Quantity
Total
-
-
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
International Program Aspects
UNCLASSIFIED
62

 General Memo
None
 Exportability and Business Issues
No issues.
Is design for international exportability 
planned?
No
Industry/Partner Exportability Cost-Sharing?
No
 Program Protection: Technology Security and Foreign Disclosure Issues
No issues.
(U) Agreements
No International Agreements have been defined for EASR Rotating Radar - AN/SPY-6(V)2
(U) AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
 General Memo
None
 Exportability and Business Issues
No issues.
Is design for international exportability 
planned?
No
Industry/Partner Exportability Cost-Sharing?
No
 Program Protection: Technology Security and Foreign Disclosure Issues
No issues.
(U) Agreements
No International Agreements have been defined for EASR FF - AN/SPY-6(V)3
AMDR FoR
UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR, December 31, 2023
International Program Aspects
UNCLASSIFIED
63

UNCLASSIFIED
Modernized
As of: December 31, 2023
Selected Acquisition Report
Supplement
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars
 (AMDR FoR)
FY 2025 President’s Budget
UNCLASSIFIED

UNCLASSIFIED
MSAR Supplement Sections
Program Description
Program Use of the Adaptive Acquistion Framework
Technologies and Systems Engineering
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
Funding Sources (Operating and Support)
Acquisition Estimate and Quantity Summary
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
Acquired System Annual End-Item Quantities by Appropriation Account
Nuclear Costs
Operational Fielding Plan
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
Annual Operating and Support Estimates by Cost Element
UNCLASSIFIED

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Program Description
Full Name
Short Name
PNO
Lead Component
384
Navy
AAF Pathway
Acquisition Type
MCA
MDAP
Acquired Systems
Subprograms
Related Programs
Full Name
PNO
Pathway
Type
ACAT/ 
BCAT
Acquisition 
Status
EASR FF
AN/SPY-6(V)4
AN/SPY-6(V)4
AN/SPY-6(V)4
Costs in SAR?
Acq    O&S
AN/SPY-6(V)3
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance 
Radar  Fixed Face
AMDR FoR
Air and Missile Defense Radar Family of Radars
Acquired Systems
Short Name
Full Name
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense 
Radar
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance 
Radar
AMDR
AN/SPY-6(V)1
AN/SPY-6(V)2
EASR Rotating Radar
Program Description
UNCLASSIFIED
3 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Program Use of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework
This acquisition is accomplished by a single program in the Major Capability Acquisition Pathway.
Program Use of AAF
UNCLASSIFIED
4 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Technologies and Systems Engineering
Major Software Efforts
Title
Status
Fielding Date Description
Major Engineering Changes 
Title
Original Need 
Date
Fielding Date Description, Rationale and Program Impacts
HP&S UPS Re-Design
Sep 2024
The SPY-6(V)1 LRIP UPS is being re-designed on the HP&S contract. 
The first production unit will be UPS shipset 8, which aligns with DDG-
134. Fielding date is the projected date the first production unit will be 
ready. 
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Tech & Systems Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
5 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Technologies and Systems Engineering
Major Software Efforts
Title
Status
Fielding Date Description
Major Engineering Changes 
Title
Original Need 
Date
Fielding Date Description, Rationale and Program Impacts
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Tech & Systems Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
6 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Technologies and Systems Engineering
Major Software Efforts
Title
Status
Fielding Date Description
Major Engineering Changes 
Title
Original Need 
Date
Fielding Date Description, Rationale and Program Impacts
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Tech & Systems Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
7 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Technologies and Systems Engineering
Major Software Efforts
Title
Status
Fielding Date Description
SPY-6 Epic 2
Development
Nov 2028
Initial software baseline to deliver anti-air, surface, ballistic missile 
defense, and integrated air and missile defense capabilties to flight IIA
Major Engineering Changes 
Title
Original Need 
Date
Fielding Date Description, Rationale and Program Impacts
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
Tech & Systems Engineering
UNCLASSIFIED
8 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
Acquisition Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604501N - Advanced Above Water 
Sensors
0604501N
3186 - Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
x
x
Note:
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604522N - Air and Missile Defense 
Radar (AMDR) System
0604522N
3186 - Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
x
Note:
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604307N - Surface Combatant 
Combat System Engineering
0604307N
3044 - Solid State/Spy Radar
x
x
Note:
RDT&E
1319N
04
0603513N - Shipboard System 
Component Development
0603513N
4019 - Radar Upgrades
x
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
02
2122 - DDG-51
0204222N
 - 
x
Note:
MILCON
1205N
XX
OTHER - Other or New 1205N Line 
Item
XXX
XXX - --
x
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
BA: 01 PE: 0805376N - Advanced Radar Detection Laboratory MILCON Project: P422
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
UNCLASSIFIED
9 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
Acquisition Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604501N - Advanced Above Water 
Sensors
0604501N
3236 - Advanced Radar 
Technology
x
x
Note:
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604522N - Air and Missile Defense 
Radar (AMDR) System
0604522N
3186 - Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
02
2086 - CVN Refueling Overhauls
0204112N
 - 
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
03
3041 - LHA Replacement
0204411N
 - 
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
03
3036 - LPD-17
0204411N
 - 
x
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
03
3010 - LPD Flight II
0204411N
 - 
x
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
UNCLASSIFIED
10 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
Acquisition Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604522N - Air and Missile Defense 
Radar (AMDR) System
0604522N
3186 - Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
x
Note:
Procurement
1810N
01
0110 - LM-2500 Gas Turbine
0204228N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
UNCLASSIFIED
11 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
Acquisition Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604501N - Advanced Above Water 
Sensors
0604501N
3236 - Advanced Radar 
Technology
x
x
Note:
RDT&E
1319N
05
0604522N - Air and Missile Defense 
Radar (AMDR) System
0604522N
3186 - Air and Missile 
Defense Radar
x
Note:
Procurement
1611N
02
2001 - Carrier Replacement Program
0204112N
 - 
Note:
Procurement
1611N
02
2128 - FFG-Frigate
0204224N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Funding Sources (Acquisition)
UNCLASSIFIED
12 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Operating and Support)
Note: Budget lines fund activites executed by the Program Office or Sustainment Office.
Operating and Support Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
O&M
1804N
01
1C1C - Combat Communications and 
Electronic Warfare
0702228N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Funding Sources (O&S)
UNCLASSIFIED
13 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Operating and Support)
Note: Budget lines fund activites executed by the Program Office or Sustainment Office.
Operating and Support Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
O&M
1804N
01
1C1C - Combat Communications and 
Electronic Warfare
0702228N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Funding Sources (O&S)
UNCLASSIFIED
14 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Operating and Support)
Note: Budget lines fund activites executed by the Program Office or Sustainment Office.
Operating and Support Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
O&M
1804N
01
1C1C - Combat Communications and 
Electronic Warfare
0702228N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Funding Sources (O&S)
UNCLASSIFIED
15 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Funding Sources (Operating and Support)
Note: Budget lines fund activites executed by the Program Office or Sustainment Office.
Operating and Support Funding Notes
Category
Account
BA
Line Item
Program 
Element
RDT&E Project
Shared
Sunk
O&M
1804N
01
1C1C - Combat Communications and 
Electronic Warfare
0702228N
 - 
Note:
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
Funding Sources (O&S)
UNCLASSIFIED
16 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquisition Estimate and Quantity Summary
Acquisiton Estimates
Acquisiton End-Item Quantities
System          PB 2025
Unit Description
Current and Future Years Defense Program Summary, TY($M)
Appropriation
Prior
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
To 
Complete
Total
   RDT&E
1,759.6
       
35.9
       
39.5
       
21.1
       
21.6
       
19.2
       
10.5
       
             -
1,907.4
       
   Procurement
3,561.7
       
486.1
     
481.6
     
481.1
     
243.3
     
497.6
     
507.7
     
526.1
          
6,785.1
       
   MILCON
27.5
            
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
27.5
            
   O&M
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
PB 2025 Total
5,348.7
       
521.9
     
521.1
     
502.2
     
264.9
     
516.9
     
518.2
     
526.1
          
8,720.0
       
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Current Base Year
Original Base Year
Category       PB 2025
TY ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
CY2024 ($M)
Report Fiscal Year
1,817.8
                
1,817.8
                
2,395.6
                    
   Procurement
6,785.1
                
4,815.3
                
4,815.3
                
6,346.0
                    
   RDT&E
1,907.4
                
   O&M
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
   MILCON
27.5
                     
28.6
                     
28.6
                     
37.7
                         
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
Total Acquisition
8,720.0
                
6,661.7
                
6,661.7
                
8,779.3
                    
   R&MF
-
                       
PAUC
290.668
               
222.058
               
222.058
               
292.643
                   
APUC
226.171
               
160.511
               
160.511
               
211.533
                   
Development
Procurement
O&M-Acquired
AN/SPY-6(V)1
-
                       
30
                        
-
                       
AN/SPY-6(V)1 will provide multi-mission capabilities, simultaneously supporting both long range, 
exoatmospheric detection, tracking and discrimination of ballistic missiles, as well as Area and Self Defense 
against air and surface threats. For the Ballistic Missile Defense (BMD) capability, increased radar sensitivity 
and bandwidth over current radar systems are needed to detect, track and support engagements of 
advanced ballistic missile threats at the required ranges, concurrent with Area and Self Defense against Air 
and Surface threats. For the Area Air Defense and Self Defense capability, increased sensitivity and clutter 
capabilities are needed to detect, react to, and engage stressing Very Low Observable/Very Low Flyer 
(VLO/VLF) threats in the presence of heavy land, sea, and rain clutter.
Total
-
                       
30
                        
-
                       
Acquisition & Quantity Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
17 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquisition Estimate and Quantity Summary
Acquisiton Estimates
Acquisiton End-Item Quantities
System          PB 2025
Unit Description
Current and Future Years Defense Program Summary, TY($M)
Appropriation
Prior
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
To 
Complete
Total
   RDT&E
124.2
          
14.4
       
12.1
       
8.1
         
8.2
         
6.4
         
4.5
         
             -
177.9
          
   Procurement
364.1
          
37.0
       
47.7
       
1.6
         
1.6
         
55.7
       
62.8
       
177.7
          
748.3
          
   MILCON
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
   O&M
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
PB 2025 Total
488.3
          
51.4
       
59.9
       
9.7
         
9.9
         
62.1
       
67.3
       
177.7
          
926.2
          
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Category       PB 2025
Current Base Year
Original Base Year
TY ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
CY2024 ($M)
Report Fiscal Year
   RDT&E
   Procurement
748.3
                   
507.0
                   
177.9
                   
146.3
                   
146.3
                   
192.8
                       
507.0
                   
668.1
                       
   O&M
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
   MILCON
-
                       
-
                           
   R&MF
Total Acquisition
926.2
                   
653.3
                   
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
PAUC
653.3
                   
860.9
                       
61.750
                 
43.551
                 
43.551
                 
57.395
                     
APUC
49.888
                 
33.798
                 
33.798
                 
44.541
                     
Development
Procurement
O&M-Acquired
15
                        
-
                       
AN/SPY-6(V)2
-
                       
AN/SPY-6(V)2 (Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar (EASR) will provide multi-mission capabilities, 
simultaneously supporting Air Traffic Control (ATC), situational awareness, and ship self-defense against Air 
and Surface threats. For these missions, increased clutter capability, short-range detection and tracking, 
and special weather waveforms are needed. AN/SPY-6(V)3 is the primary air surveillance radar supporting 
ship self-defense, situational awareness and Air Traffic Control (ATC) for Ford class Carriers. For other ship 
classes, AN/SPY-6(V)2 is the primary radar for self-defense and situational awareness with the ancillary role 
of supporting ATC by resolving SPN-50 mast blockage for ATC.
15
                        
-
                       
Total
-
                       
Acquisition & Quantity Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
18 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquisition Estimate and Quantity Summary
Acquisiton Estimates
Category       PB 2025
Total Acquisition
PAUC
APUC
Acquisiton End-Item Quantities
System          PB 2025
Unit Description
Current and Future Years Defense Program Summary, TY($M)
Appropriation
Prior
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
To 
Complete
Total
   RDT&E
172.3
          
26.5
       
20.8
       
14.0
       
13.8
       
11.8
       
6.8
         
             -
266.1
          
   Procurement
399.8
          
143.6
     
74.4
       
343.8
     
77.3
       
143.4
     
80.4
       
790.4
          
2,053.1
       
   MILCON
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
   O&M
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
PB 2025 Total
572.1
          
170.1
     
95.3
       
357.8
     
91.1
       
155.3
     
87.2
       
790.4
          
2,319.2
       
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
TY ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
Report Fiscal Year
Current Base Year
Original Base Year
CY2013 ($M)
CY2024 ($M)
213.9
                   
213.9
                   
281.9
                       
   RDT&E
266.1
                   
1,628.6
                    
   Procurement
2,053.1
                
1,235.8
                
1,235.8
                
-
                       
   MILCON
-
                       
   O&M
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
-
                           
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
   R&MF
-
                       
2,319.2
                
1,449.7
                
1,449.7
                
1,910.5
                    
92.770
                 
57.987
                 
57.987
                 
76.420
                     
49.431
                 
65.144
                     
82.124
                 
49.431
                 
Development
Procurement
O&M-Acquired
AN/SPY-6(V)3
-
                       
25
                        
-
                       
AN/SPY-6(V)3 (Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar (EASR) will provide multi-mission capabilities, 
simultaneously supporting Air Traffic Control (ATC), situational awareness, and ship self-defense against Air 
and Surface threats. For these missions, increased clutter capability, short-range detection and tracking, 
and special weather waveforms are needed. AN/SPY-6(V)3 is the primary air surveillance radar supporting 
ship self-defense, situational awareness and Air Traffic Control (ATC) for Ford class Carriers. For other ship 
classes, AN/SPY-6(V)2 is the primary radar for self-defense and situational awareness with the ancillary role 
of supporting ATC by resolving SPN-50 mast blockage for ATC.
Total
-
                       
25.0
                     
-
                       
Acquisition & Quantity Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
19 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquisition Estimate and Quantity Summary
Acquisiton Estimates
Category       PB 2025
Total Acquisition
PAUC
APUC
Acquisiton End-Item Quantities
System          PB 2025
Unit Description
Current and Future Years Defense Program Summary, TY($M)
Appropriation
Prior
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
To 
Complete
Total
   RDT&E
17.6
            
13.2
       
39.9
       
20.4
       
19.4
       
19.2
       
8.1
         
1.9
              
139.7
          
   Procurement
173.5
          
170.5
     
341.3
     
411.3
     
418.5
     
487.1
     
499.2
     
3,906.8
       
6,408.2
       
   MILCON
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
   O&M
             -
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
-
         
             -
-
             
PB 2025 Total
191.1
          
183.6
     
381.2
     
431.6
     
437.9
     
506.4
     
507.4
     
3,908.7
       
6,547.9
       
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
CY2024 ($M)
Current Base Year
Original Base Year
Report Fiscal Year
TY ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
CY2013 ($M)
100.2
                   
132.0
                       
   RDT&E
139.7
                   
100.2
                   
   Procurement
6,408.2
                
4,095.6
                
4,095.6
                
5,397.5
                    
-
                           
-
                       
-
                           
   MILCON
-
                       
-
                       
   O&M
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                           
   R&MF
-
                       
-
                       
6,547.9
                
4,195.8
                
4,195.8
                
5,529.5
                    
167.832
               
167.832
               
221.181
                   
261.916
               
256.327
               
163.825
               
163.825
               
215.901
                   
Development
Procurement
O&M-Acquired
AN/SPY-6(V)4
-
                       
25
                        
-
                       
Total
-
                       
25.0
                     
-
                       
AN/SPY-6(V)4 will provide Active Electronically-Steered Array (AESA) and digital beamforming technology 
for backfit to Flight IIA DDG. Backfit of SPY-6 technology on DDG 51 FLT IIA commences with non-
recurring engineering efforts to scale the radar hardware and software; perform modeling and simulation to 
update the Concept of Operations (CONOPS), and enable SPY-6 Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
(IAMD) performance capabilities on FLT IIA DDGs.
Acquisition & Quantity Summary
UNCLASSIFIED
20 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -        1,907.4      1,907.4 
 -            
     1,817.8 
2006
      10.890           10.9   0.898409           12.1 
2007
      35.300           35.3   0.920414           38.4 
2008
      92.920           92.9   0.937204           99.1 
2009
      92.485           92.5   0.949238           97.4 
2010
    164.870         164.9   0.963476         171.1 
2011
    204.159         204.2   0.986481         207.0 
2012
    138.750         138.8   1.002842         138.4 
2013
    193.947         193.9   1.013372         191.4 
2014
    112.658         112.7   1.027691         109.6 
2015
    126.336         126.3   1.040622         121.4 
2016
    227.051         227.1   1.059936         214.2 
2017
    142.338         142.3   1.079768         131.8 
2018
      49.618           49.6   1.106216           44.9 
2019
      24.502           24.5   1.127521           21.7 
2020
      23.985           24.0   1.168985           20.5 
2021
      37.850           37.9   1.221524           31.0 
2022
      37.115           37.1   1.285339           28.9 
2023
      44.802           44.8   1.323604           33.8 
2024
      35.856           35.9   1.353819           26.5 
2025
      39.502           39.5   1.382538           28.6 
2026
      21.082           21.1   1.411571           14.9 
2027
      21.624           21.6   1.441214           15.0 
2028
      19.238           19.2   1.471479           13.1 
2029
      10.510           10.5   1.502380             7.0 
1319N - Research, Development, Test & Eval, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
21 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
     6,785.1 
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -        6,785.1 
 -            
     4,815.3 
2006
              -     0.850016 
              -   
2007
              -     0.889074 
              -   
2008
              -     0.919356 
              -   
2009
              -     0.947481 
              -   
2010
              -     0.980399 
              -   
2011
              -     1.012561 
              -   
2012
              -     1.035790 
              -   
2013
              -     1.057453 
              -   
2014
              -     1.078866 
              -   
2015
              -     1.103731 
              -   
2016
    245.353 
        245.4   1.131956         216.8 
2017
    385.849 
        385.8   1.164427         331.4 
2018
    211.339 
        211.3   1.202357         175.8 
2019
    521.434 
        521.4   1.247096         418.1 
2020
    566.786 
        566.8   1.298484         436.5 
2021
    446.292 
        446.3   1.350983         330.3 
2022
    450.684 
        450.7   1.398157         322.3 
2023
    733.916 
        733.9   1.431057         512.8 
2024
    486.052 
        486.1   1.461757         332.5 
2025
    481.597 
        481.6   1.492508         322.7 
2026
    481.104 
        481.1   1.523851         315.7 
2027
    243.319 
        243.3   1.555852         156.4 
2028
    497.626 
        497.6   1.588525         313.3 
2029
    507.736 
        507.7   1.621884         313.1 
2030
    526.056 
        526.1   1.655944         317.7 
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
22 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -             27.5           27.5 
 -            
          28.6 
2006
              -     0.914350 
              -   
2007
              -     0.932945 
              -   
2008
              -     0.948845 
              -   
2009
      27.500           27.5   0.961845           28.6 
1205N - Military Construction, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
23 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -           177.9         177.9 
 -            
        146.3 
2006
              -     0.898409 
              -   
2007
              -     0.920414 
              -   
2008
              -     0.937204 
              -   
2009
              -     0.949238 
              -   
2010
              -     0.963476 
              -   
2011
              -     0.986481 
              -   
2012
              -     1.002842 
              -   
2013
              -     1.013372 
              -   
2014
              -     1.027691 
              -   
2015
        0.295             0.3   1.040622             0.3 
2016
      10.199           10.2   1.059936             9.6 
2017
      26.666           26.7   1.079768           24.7 
2018
      33.613           33.6   1.106216           30.4 
2019
      11.021           11.0   1.127521             9.8 
2020
        5.150             5.2   1.168985             4.4 
2021
        7.027             7.0   1.221524             5.8 
2022
      16.384           16.4   1.285339           12.7 
2023
      13.815           13.8   1.323604           10.4 
2024
      14.383           14.4   1.353819           10.6 
2025
      12.131           12.1   1.382538             8.8 
2026
        8.068             8.1   1.411571             5.7 
2027
        8.229             8.2   1.441214             5.7 
2028
        6.435             6.4   1.471479             4.4 
2029
        4.509             4.5   1.502380             3.0 
1319N - Research, Development, Test & Eval, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
24 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
        720.2 
              -                 -                 -                 -             28.2         748.3 
 -            
        507.0 
2006
              -     0.850016 
              -   
2007
              -     0.889074 
              -   
2008
              -     0.919356 
              -   
2009
              -     0.947481 
              -   
2010
              -     0.980399 
              -   
2011
              -     1.012561 
              -   
2012
              -     1.035790 
              -   
2013
              -     1.057453 
              -   
2014
              -     1.078866 
              -   
2015
              -     1.103731 
              -   
2016
              -     1.131956 
              -   
2017
              -     1.164427 
              -   
2018
        6.723             6.7   1.202357             5.6 
2019
        2.204             2.2   1.247096             1.8 
2020
    192.636 
        1.030         193.7   1.298484         149.1 
2021
              -   
        1.405             1.4   1.350983             1.0 
2022
      69.462 
        3.277           72.7   1.398157           52.0 
2023
      84.600 
        2.763           87.4   1.431057           61.0 
2024
      34.150 
        2.877           37.0   1.461757           25.3 
2025
      45.308 
        2.426           47.7   1.492508           32.0 
2026
              -   
        1.614             1.6   1.523851             1.1 
2027
              -   
        1.646             1.6   1.555852             1.1 
2028
      54.412 
        1.287           55.7   1.588525           35.1 
2029
      61.851 
        0.902           62.8   1.621884           38.7 
2030
              -   
              -                 -     1.655944 
              -   
2031
    122.654 
              -           122.7   1.690718           72.5 
2032
              -   
              -                 -     1.726223 
              -   
2033
              -   
              -                 -     1.762474 
              -   
2034
      55.095 
              -             55.1   1.799486           30.6 
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
25 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -           266.1         266.1 
 -            
        213.9 
2006
              -     0.898409 
              -   
2007
              -     0.920414 
              -   
2008
              -     0.937204 
              -   
2009
              -     0.949238 
              -   
2010
              -     0.963476 
              -   
2011
              -     0.986481 
              -   
2012
              -     1.002842 
              -   
2013
              -     1.013372 
              -   
2014
              -     1.027691 
              -   
2015
        0.295             0.3   1.040622             0.3 
2016
      10.199           10.2   1.059936             9.6 
2017
      26.666           26.7   1.079768           24.7 
2018
      33.613           33.6   1.106216           30.4 
2019
      20.284           20.3   1.127521           18.0 
2020
        9.693             9.7   1.168985             8.3 
2021
      19.917           19.9   1.221524           16.3 
2022
      25.190           25.2   1.285339           19.6 
2023
      26.435           26.4   1.323604           20.0 
2024
      26.535           26.5   1.353819           19.6 
2025
      20.838           20.8   1.382538           15.1 
2026
      14.048           14.0   1.411571           10.0 
2027
      13.826           13.8   1.441214             9.6 
2028
      11.821           11.8   1.471479             8.0 
2029
        6.785             6.8   1.502380             4.5 
1319N - Research, Development, Test & Eval, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
26 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
     2,053.1 
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -        2,053.1 
 -            
     1,235.8 
2006
              -     0.850016 
              -   
2007
              -     0.889074 
              -   
2008
              -     0.919356 
              -   
2009
              -     0.947481 
              -   
2010
              -     0.980399 
              -   
2011
              -     1.012561 
              -   
2012
              -     1.035790 
              -   
2013
              -     1.057453 
              -   
2014
              -     1.078866 
              -   
2015
              -     1.103731 
              -   
2016
              -     1.131956 
              -   
2017
              -     1.164427 
              -   
2018
              -     1.202357 
              -   
2019
              -     1.247096 
              -   
2020
    151.549 
        151.5   1.298484         116.7 
2021
              -   
              -     1.350983 
              -   
2022
    174.396 
        174.4   1.398157         124.7 
2023
      73.820 
          73.8   1.431057           51.6 
2024
    143.591 
        143.6   1.461757           98.2 
2025
      74.415 
          74.4   1.492508           49.9 
2026
    343.790 
        343.8   1.523851         225.6 
2027
      77.269 
          77.3   1.555852           49.7 
2028
    143.445 
        143.4   1.588525           90.3 
2029
      80.380 
          80.4   1.621884           49.6 
2030
    148.226 
        148.2   1.655944           89.5 
2031
      84.423 
          84.4   1.690718           49.9 
2032
              -   
              -     1.726223 
              -   
2033
              -   
              -     1.762474 
              -   
2034
              -   
              -     1.799486 
              -   
2035
              -   
              -     1.837275 
              -   
2036
      93.469 
          93.5   1.875858           49.8 
2037
              -   
              -     1.915251 
              -   
2038
              -   
              -     1.955471 
              -   
2039
              -   
              -     1.996536 
              -   
2040
              -   
              -     2.038464 
              -   
2041
    102.514 
        102.5   2.081271           49.3 
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
27 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
2042
              -   
              -     2.124978 
              -   
2043
              -   
              -     2.169602 
              -   
2044
              -   
              -     2.215164 
              -   
2045
              -   
              -     2.261683 
              -   
2046
    111.560 
        111.6   2.309178           48.3 
2047
              -   
              -     2.357671 
              -   
2048
              -   
              -     2.407182 
              -   
2049
              -   
              -     2.457733 
              -   
2050
              -   
              -     2.509345 
              -   
2051
    120.605 
        120.6   2.562041           47.1 
2052
              -   
              -     2.615844 
              -   
2053
              -   
              -     2.670777 
              -   
2054
              -   
              -     2.726863 
              -   
2055
              -   
              -     2.784127 
              -   
2056
    129.650 
        129.7   2.842594           45.6 
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
28 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -           139.7         139.7 
 -            
        100.2 
2006
              -     0.898409 
              -   
2007
              -     0.920414 
              -   
2008
              -     0.937204 
              -   
2009
              -     0.949238 
              -   
2010
              -     0.963476 
              -   
2011
              -     0.986481 
              -   
2012
              -     1.002842 
              -   
2013
              -     1.013372 
              -   
2014
              -     1.027691 
              -   
2015
              -     1.040622 
              -   
2016
              -     1.059936 
              -   
2017
              -     1.079768 
              -   
2018
              -     1.106216 
              -   
2019
              -     1.127521 
              -   
2020
              -     1.168985 
              -   
2021
        6.615             6.6   1.221524             5.4 
2022
        9.848             9.8   1.285339             7.7 
2023
        1.154             1.2   1.323604             0.9 
2024
      13.183           13.2   1.353819             9.7 
2025
      39.899           39.9   1.382538           28.9 
2026
      20.366           20.4   1.411571           14.4 
2027
      19.396           19.4   1.441214           13.5 
2028
      19.228           19.2   1.471479           13.1 
2029
        8.143             8.1   1.502380             5.4 
2030
        1.914             1.9   1.533930             1.2 
1319N - Research, Development, Test & Eval, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
29 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Acquisition Estimates by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
     6,408.2 
              -                 -                 -                 -                 -        6,408.2 
 -            
     4,095.6 
2006
              -     0.911169 
              -   
2007
              -     0.931004 
              -   
2008
              -     0.946133 
              -   
2009
              -     0.958606 
              -   
2010
              -     0.977134 
              -   
2011
              -     0.991421 
              -   
2012
              -     1.007196 
              -   
2013
              -     1.020987 
              -   
2014
              -     1.034575 
              -   
2015
              -     1.049494 
              -   
2016
              -     1.068493 
              -   
2017
              -     1.091188 
              -   
2018
              -     1.116055 
              -   
2019
              -     1.143138 
              -   
2020
              -     1.183389 
              -   
2021
              -     1.241282 
              -   
2022
              -     1.293927 
              -   
2023
    173.520 
        173.5   1.331385         130.3 
2024
    170.451 
        170.5   1.361564         125.2 
2025
    341.318 
        341.3   1.390437         245.5 
2026
    411.268 
        411.3   1.419637         289.7 
2027
    418.483 
        418.5   1.449449         288.7 
2028
    487.140 
        487.1   1.479887         329.2 
2029
    499.211 
        499.2   1.510965         330.4 
2030
    498.249 
        498.2   1.542695         323.0 
2031
    495.606 
        495.6   1.575092         314.7 
2032
    505.353 
        505.4   1.608169         314.2 
2033
    511.580 
        511.6   1.641940         311.6 
2034
    521.866 
        521.9   1.676421         311.3 
2035
    535.029 
        535.0   1.711626         312.6 
2036
    365.382 
        365.4   1.747570         209.1 
2037
    182.054 
        182.1   1.784269         102.0 
2038
    172.010 
        172.0   1.821739           94.4 
2039
      92.274 
          92.3   1.859995           49.6 
2040
      12.870 
          12.9   1.899055             6.8 
2041
        8.738 
            8.7   1.938935             4.5 
1810N - Other Procurement, Navy
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
30 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
       Source for TY$-CY$ Conversion:
ASN FMB-6 Inflation Rates and Outlay Factors for DA, DoN and DW accounts: 17 Jan 2024
fiscal 
year
 End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway 
Non-End Item 
Recurring 
Flyaway
Non-
Recurring 
Flyaway
Initial Spares
Depot 
Activation
Other/ 
Unallocated
Total 
TY($M)
Weighted 
Rate
Total CY2013 
($M)
1810N - Other Procurement, Navy
2042
        5.762 
            5.8   1.979653             2.9 
Annual Acquisition Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
31 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquired System Annual End-Item Quantities by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
fiscal year
 AN/SPY-6(V)1 
  
  
Total
Total
                   30                    -                      -                      30 
2016
                     1 
                     1 
2017
                     2 
                     2 
2018
                     1 
                     1 
2019
                     3 
                     3 
2020
                     3 
                     3 
2021
                     2 
                     2 
2022
                     2 
                     2 
2023
                     3 
                     3 
2024
                     2 
                     2 
2025
                     2 
                     2 
2026
                     2 
                     2 
2027
                     1 
                     1 
2028
                     2 
                     2 
2029
                     2 
                     2 
2030
                     2 
                     2 
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Quantities
UNCLASSIFIED
32 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquired System Annual End-Item Quantities by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
fiscal year
 AN/SPY-6(V)2 
  
  
Total
Total
                   15                    -                      -                      15 
2016
                   -   
2017
                   -   
2018
                   -   
2019
                   -   
2020
                     4 
                     4 
2021
                   -   
                   -   
2022
                     2 
                     2 
2023
                     2 
                     2 
2024
                     1 
                     1 
2025
                     1 
                     1 
2026
                   -   
                   -   
2027
                   -   
                   -   
2028
                     1 
                     1 
2029
                     1 
                     1 
2030
                   -   
                   -   
2031
                     2 
                     2 
2032
                   -   
                   -   
2033
                   -   
                   -   
2034
                     1 
                     1 
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Quantities
UNCLASSIFIED
33 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquired System Annual End-Item Quantities by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
fiscal year
 AN/SPY-6(V)3 
  
  
Total
Total
                   25                    -                      -                      25 
2016
                   -   
2017
                   -   
2018
                   -   
2019
                   -   
2020
                     2 
                     2 
2021
                   -   
                   -   
2022
                     3 
                     3 
2023
                     1 
                     1 
2024
                     2 
                     2 
2025
                     1 
                     1 
2026
                     4 
                     4 
2027
                     1 
                     1 
2028
                     2 
                     2 
2029
                     1 
                     1 
2030
                     2 
                     2 
2031
                     1 
                     1 
2032
                   -   
                   -   
2033
                   -   
                   -   
2034
                   -   
                   -   
2035
                   -   
                   -   
2036
                     1 
                     1 
2037
                   -   
                   -   
2038
                   -   
                   -   
2039
                   -   
                   -   
2040
                   -   
                   -   
2041
                     1 
                     1 
2042
                   -   
                   -   
2043
                   -   
                   -   
2044
                   -   
                   -   
2045
                   -   
                   -   
2046
                     1 
                     1 
2047
                   -   
                   -   
2048
                   -   
                   -   
2049
                   -   
                   -   
2050
                   -   
                   -   
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
Annual Acquisition Quantities
UNCLASSIFIED
34 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
fiscal year
 AN/SPY-6(V)3 
  
  
Total
1611N (BLS Hist) - Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy
2051
                     1 
                     1 
2052
                   -   
                   -   
2053
                   -   
                   -   
2054
                   -   
                   -   
2055
                   -   
                   -   
2056
                     1 
                     1 
Annual Acquisition Quantities
UNCLASSIFIED
35 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Acquired System Annual End-Item Quantities by Appropriation Account
(Aligned to Budget Position: PB 2025)
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
fiscal year
 AN/SPY-6(V)4 
  
  
Total
Total
                   25                    -                      -                      25 
2016
                   -   
2017
                   -   
2018
                   -   
2019
                   -   
2020
                   -   
2021
                   -   
2022
                   -   
2023
                     1 
                     1 
2024
                     1 
                     1 
2025
                     2 
                     2 
2026
                     2 
                     2 
2027
                     2 
                     2 
2028
                     2 
                     2 
2029
                     2 
                     2 
2030
                     2 
                     2 
2031
                     2 
                     2 
2032
                     2 
                     2 
2033
                     2 
                     2 
2034
                     2 
                     2 
2035
                     2 
                     2 
2036
                     1 
                     1 
1810N - Other Procurement, Navy
Annual Acquisition Quantities
UNCLASSIFIED
36 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Nuclear Costs
Program's Use of Department of Energy Resources
None
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Nuclear Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
37 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Nuclear Costs
Program's Use of Department of Energy Resources
None
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Nuclear Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
38 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Nuclear Costs
Program's Use of Department of Energy Resources
None
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Nuclear Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
39 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Nuclear Costs
Program's Use of Department of Energy Resources
None
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
Nuclear Costs
UNCLASSIFIED
40 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Operational Fielding Plan
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)1
Fielding and Inventory Notes
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Fielding Plan and Inventory
fiscal 
year
 Store 
Field
Expend/Loss
Decommission
Inventory
2023
                      7 
2024
                      2 
                     -                        -                        -                         9 
2025
                      1                       1 
                     -                        -                       11 
2026
                      1                       1 
                     -                        -                       13 
2027
                     -                         2 
                     -                        -                       15 
2028
                     (1)                       3 
                     -                        -                       17 
2029
                     -                         2 
                     -                        -                       19 
Fielding plan aligned to PMS 400D MPS dated 29 Sept 2023. Systems are considered "operationally 
fielded" as soon as SCN Hulls are delivered to the Navy. "Store" is defined as systems delivered under 
contract but not yet installed/activated on SCN hulls. 2023 invintory: 6 Storage, 1 Field
Operational Fielding Plan
UNCLASSIFIED
41 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Operational Fielding Plan
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)2
Fielding and Inventory Notes
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Fielding Plan and Inventory
fiscal 
year
 Store 
Field
Expend/Loss
Decommission
Inventory
2023
                      2 
2024
                      1                       1 
                     -                        -                         4 
2025
                      1 
                     -                        -                        -                         5 
2026
                     (1)                       2 
                     -                        -                         6 
2027
                     -                         1 
                     -                        -                         7 
2028
                     -                         1 
                     -                        -                         8 
2029
                     (1)                       1 
                     -                        -                         8 
Fielding plan aligned to SCN construction profiles and backfit schedules. Systems are considered 
"operationally fielded" as soon as SCN Hulls are delivered to the Navy or when backfit hulls reach OWLD. 
"Store" is defined as systems delivered under contract but not yet installed/activated on SCN/backfit hulls. 
2023 invintory: 2 Storage, 0 Field
Operational Fielding Plan
UNCLASSIFIED
42 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Operational Fielding Plan
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)3
Fielding and Inventory Notes
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Fielding Plan and Inventory
fiscal 
year
 Store 
Field
Expend/Loss
Decommission
Inventory
2023
                      1 
2024
                     -                        -                        -                        -                         1 
2025
                      1                       1 
                     -                        -                         3 
2026
                      3 
                     -                        -                        -                         6 
2027
                      1 
                     -                        -                         7 
2028
                     (1)                       2 
                     -                        -                         8 
2029
                     (2)                       2 
                     -                        -                         8 
Fielding plan aligned to SCN construction profiles and backfit schedules. Systems are considered 
"operationally fielded" as soon as SCN Hulls are delivered to the Navy or when backfit hulls reach OWLD. 
"Store" is defined as systems delivered under contract but not yet installed/activated on SCN/backfit hulls. 
2023 invintory: 1 Storage, 0 Field
Operational Fielding Plan
UNCLASSIFIED
43 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Operational Fielding Plan
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)4
Fielding and Inventory Notes
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Fielding Plan and Inventory
fiscal 
year
 Store 
Field
Expend/Loss
Decommission
Inventory
2023
                     -   
2024
                     -                        -                        -                        -                        -   
2025
                     -                        -                        -                        -                        -   
2026
                      1 
                     -                        -                        -                         1 
2027
                      1 
                     -                        -                        -                         2 
2028
                      2 
                     -                        -                        -                         4 
2029
                      1                       1 
                     -                        -                         6 
Fielding plan aligned to DDG Mod 2.0 schedules. Systems are considered "operationally fielded" as soon 
as backfit hulls reach OWLD. "Store" is defined as systems delivered under contract but not yet 
installed/activated on backfit hulls. 2023 invintory: 0 Storage, 0 Field
Operational Fielding Plan
UNCLASSIFIED
44 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
Independent and Current Cost Estimate Comparison
Category             CY2013 ($M)
 Independent Cost 
Estimate 2/9/2024 
Current Estimate 
4/9/2024
Variance with ICE 
(%)
   Unit-Level Manpower
- 
   Unit Operations
- 
   Maintenance
            2,118.7             2,407.2 
14%
   Sustaining Support
            2,849.0             3,171.3 
11%
   Continued System Improvements
               494.0                474.2 
-4%
   Other
- 
   Total O&S
            5,461.7             6,052.7 
11%
Independent Cost Estimate Source
   Event:
(V)1 APB
   Type:  
Independent Cost Estimate
   Approved by:
NAVSEA Systems Engineering Directorate, February 9, 2024
   Note:
Current Cost Estimate Source
   Type:  
Program Office Estimate
   Approved by:
Steve Hoerst, April 9, 2024
Cost Estimate Variance Explanation
3.0 Maintenance: Profile Adjustment, and LBTS support through FYDP
4.0 Sustaining Support: Profile Adjustment and New Depot Maintenance support (Test Assets 
Maintenance)
5.0 Continuing System Improvments: New Requirment -SITS Licenses 
ICE inputs from APB 
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
45 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
Independent and Current Cost Estimate Comparison
Category             CY2013 ($M)
 Independent Cost 
Estimate 1/3/2023 
Current Estimate 
4/9/2024
Variance with ICE 
(%)
   Unit-Level Manpower
- 
   Unit Operations
- 
   Maintenance
               130.7                184.4 
41%
   Sustaining Support
               503.0                773.8 
54%
   Continued System Improvements
                 99.5                130.3 
31%
   Other
- 
   Total O&S
               733.1             1,088.5 
48%
Independent Cost Estimate Source
   Event:
(V)2 APB
   Type:  
Independent Cost Estimate
   Approved by:
NAVSEA Systems Engineering Directorate, January 3, 2023
   Note:
Current Cost Estimate Source
   Type:  
Program Office Estimate
   Approved by:
Steve Hoerst, April 9, 2024
Cost Estimate Variance Explanation
General: Addition of real price change
3.0 Maintenance: Profile Adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor, and New LBTS support 
4.0 Sustaining Support: Profile Adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor, Tech Refresh cycle 
length decrease from 8 to 6 years, and New Requirements - PC labor support and Depot Maintenance 
support (Test Asset Maintenance)
5.0 Continuing System Improvments: Profile adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor and HIDS 
Lincense requirement , and New Requirment -SITS Licenses 
ICE inputs from APB 
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
46 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
Independent and Current Cost Estimate Comparison
Category             CY2013 ($M)
 Independent Cost 
Estimate 1/3/2023 
Current Estimate 
4/9/2024
Variance with ICE 
(%)
   Unit-Level Manpower
- 
   Unit Operations
- 
   Maintenance
               429.3                452.7 
5%
   Sustaining Support
            1,324.0             1,628.7 
23%
   Continued System Improvements
               370.3                325.5 
-12%
   Other
- 
   Total O&S
            2,123.6             2,406.9 
13%
Independent Cost Estimate Source
   Event:
(V)3 APB
   Type:  
Independent Cost Estimate
   Approved by:
NAVSEA Systems Engineering Directorate, January 3, 2023
   Note:
Current Cost Estimate Source
   Type:  
Program Office Estimate
   Approved by:
Steve Hoerst, April 9, 2024
Cost Estimate Variance Explanation
General: Addition of real price change
3.0 Maintenance: Profile Adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor, and New LBTS support 
4.0 Sustaining Support: Profile Adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor, Tech Refresh cycle 
length decrease from 8 to 6 years, and New Requirements - PC labor support and Depot Maintenance 
support (Test Asset Maintenance)
5.0 Continuing System Improvments: Profile adjustment, Removal of labor adjustment factor and HIDS 
Lincense requirement , and New Requirment -SITS Licenses 
ICE inputs from APB 
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
47 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
Independent and Current Cost Estimate Comparison
Category 
 CY2013 ($M)
 Independent Cost 
Estimate 2/9/2024 
Current Estimate 
4/9/2024
Variance with ICE 
(%)
 Unit-Level Manpower
- 
 Unit Operations
- 
 Maintenance
 908.5 
 926.2 
2%
 Sustaining Support
 1,496.8 
 1,495.9 
0%
 Continued System Improvements
 179.3 
 179.3 
0%
 Other
- 
 Total O&S
 2,584.6 
 2,601.3 
1%
Independent Cost Estimate Source
 Event:
(V)4 APB
 Type: 
Independent Cost Estimate
 Approved by:
NAVSEA Systems Engineering Directorate, February 9, 2024
 Note:
Current Cost Estimate Source
 Type: 
Program Office Estimate
 Approved by:
Steve Hoerst, April 9, 2024
Cost Estimate Variance Explanation
3.0 Maintenance: New requirement -  LBTS support 
ICE inputs from APB
O&S Independent Cost Estimate
UNCLASSIFIED
48 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Operating and Support Estimates by Cost Element
AN/SPY-6(V)1 Air and Missile Defense Radar Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)1
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
 - 
- 
 2,407.2 
 3,171.2 
 474.2 
-
6,052.6
2021
 1.733 
 5.643 
 5.676 
 13.1 
2022
 13.288 
 1.759 
 9.216 
 24.3 
2023
 11.364 
 12.113 
 8.238 
 31.7 
2024
 5.323 
 24.017 
 7.528 
 36.9 
2025
 22.834 
 15.392 
 7.674 
 45.9 
2026
 27.031 
 37.082 
 8.368 
 72.5 
2027
 30.318 
 46.137 
 9.976 
 86.4 
2028
 37.307 
 46.725 
 10.940 
 95.0 
2029
 40.709 
 45.748 
 11.274 
 97.7 
2030
 31.584 
 69.706 
 11.691 
 113.0 
2031
 37.008 
 46.633 
 12.081 
 95.7 
2032
 42.263 
 70.094 
 12.500 
 124.9 
2033
 46.004 
 80.931 
 9.438 
 136.4 
2034
 45.639 
 78.973 
 9.877 
 134.5 
2035
 47.191 
 67.452 
 10.064 
 124.7 
2036
 50.388 
 68.427 
 10.086 
 128.9 
2037
 53.578 
 57.635 
 10.226 
 121.4 
2038
 55.084 
 91.248 
 10.500 
 156.8 
2039
 54.899 
 102.789 
 10.757 
 168.4 
2040
 54.774 
 91.182 
 10.875 
 156.8 
2041
 54.701 
 68.069 
 10.785 
 133.6 
2042
 54.629 
 67.804 
 10.795 
 133.2 
2043
 54.546 
 55.857 
 10.821 
 121.2 
2044
 54.477 
 90.570 
 10.793 
 155.8 
2045
 54.397 
 102.124 
 10.804 
 167.3 
2046
 54.465 
 90.542 
 10.832 
 155.8 
2047
 54.491 
 67.449 
 10.805 
 132.7 
2048
 54.428 
 67.396 
 10.816 
 132.6 
2049
 54.341 
 55.772 
 10.457 
 120.6 
2050
 54.345 
 90.524 
 10.430 
 155.3 
2051
 54.399 
 102.196 
 8.839 
 165.4 
2052
 54.376 
 90.605 
 8.865 
 153.8 
2053
 54.423 
 67.499 
 8.841 
 130.8 
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
49 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
System: AN/SPY-6(V)1
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
2054
 54.422 
 67.475 
 8.853 
 130.8 
2055
 54.288 
 55.902 
 8.882 
 119.1 
2056
 54.164 
 90.619 
 8.694 
 153.5 
2057
 54.041 
 102.204 
 8.706 
 165.0 
2058
 53.924 
 90.648 
 8.735 
 153.3 
2059
 53.903 
 67.573 
 8.712 
 130.2 
2060
 53.873 
 55.960 
 8.729 
 118.6 
2061
 53.800 
 55.982 
 8.760 
 118.5 
2062
 53.711 
 78.543 
 6.009 
 138.3 
2063
 53.619 
 78.510 
 6.022 
 138.2 
2064
 51.974 
 66.655 
 5.999 
 124.6 
2065
 51.983 
 44.004 
 5.877 
 101.9 
2066
 50.024 
 19.879 
 5.837 
 75.7 
2067
 48.093 
 31.104 
 5.701 
 84.9 
2068
 44.530 
 41.914 
 5.472 
 91.9 
2069
 39.396 
 40.825 
 5.114 
 85.3 
2070
 35.805 
 27.237 
 4.701 
 67.7 
2071
 30.485 
 13.815 
 4.329 
 48.6 
2072
 25.164 
 11.956 
 3.846 
 41.0 
2073
 19.863 
 10.369 
 3.385 
 33.6 
2074
 14.563 
 8.819 
 2.886 
 26.3 
2075
 11.028 
 7.754 
 2.452 
 21.2 
2076
 11.030 
 7.858 
 2.237 
 21.1 
2077
 9.264 
 7.273 
 1.358 
 17.9 
2078
 5.731 
 6.147 
 1.149 
 13.0 
2079
 2.195 
 6.125 
 0.870 
 9.2 
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
50 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Operating and Support Estimates by Cost Element
AN/SPY-6(V)2 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)2
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
 - 
- 
 184.4 
 773.8 
 130.3 
-
1,088.5
2021
 0.099 
 1.271 
 1.4 
2022
 1.157 
 0.411 
 1.6 
2023
 - 
2024
 0.841 
 5.487 
 3.667 
 10.0 
2025
 3.866 
 11.280 
 3.763 
 18.9 
2026
 4.124 
 12.414 
 3.815 
 20.4 
2027
 4.126 
 16.757 
 3.853 
 24.7 
2028
 4.841 
 12.425 
 3.938 
 21.2 
2029
 5.412 
 8.348 
 3.965 
 17.7 
2030
 2.826 
 22.682 
 4.027 
 29.5 
2031
 3.353 
 18.000 
 4.101 
 25.5 
2032
 3.739 
 13.808 
 4.079 
 21.6 
2033
 3.436 
 22.896 
 4.114 
 30.4 
2034
 4.322 
 27.732 
 4.226 
 36.3 
2035
 4.014 
 8.984 
 4.209 
 17.2 
2036
 3.701 
 22.985 
 4.140 
 30.8 
2037
 4.740 
 18.348 
 2.970 
 26.1 
2038
 5.031 
 13.650 
 2.969 
 21.7 
2039
 3.857 
 32.106 
 2.963 
 38.9 
2040
 4.722 
 27.488 
 2.955 
 35.2 
2041
 4.392 
 9.027 
 2.924 
 16.3 
2042
 4.176 
 22.660 
 2.887 
 29.7 
2043
 5.357 
 18.080 
 2.955 
 26.4 
2044
 5.028 
 13.465 
 2.925 
 21.4 
2045
 3.857 
 27.309 
 2.888 
 34.1 
2046
 4.813 
 27.314 
 2.957 
 35.1 
2047
 4.386 
 8.857 
 2.926 
 16.2 
2048
 3.941 
 17.846 
 2.874 
 24.7 
2049
 4.793 
 17.861 
 2.060 
 24.7 
2050
 4.749 
 13.250 
 2.037 
 20.0 
2051
 3.424 
 26.861 
 1.986 
 32.3 
2052
 4.009 
 22.268 
 2.015 
 28.3 
2053
 3.923 
 8.427 
 2.002 
 14.4 
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
51 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
System: AN/SPY-6(V)2
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
2054
 3.623 
 17.661 
 1.967 
 23.3 
2055
 4.518 
 17.665 
 2.024 
 24.2 
2056
 3.985 
 12.809 
 1.983 
 18.8 
2057
 3.200 
 22.067 
 1.933 
 27.2 
2058
 3.708 
 22.071 
 1.990 
 27.8 
2059
 3.707 
 8.236 
 1.971 
 13.9 
2060
 3.407 
 17.474 
 1.948 
 22.8 
2061
 3.976 
 12.865 
 2.008 
 18.8 
2062
 3.822 
 8.040 
 1.969 
 13.8 
2063
 2.872 
 17.111 
 1.915 
 21.9 
2064
 3.402 
 16.752 
 1.964 
 22.1 
2065
 2.921 
 7.462 
 1.090 
 11.5 
2066
 2.419 
 6.872 
 1.019 
 10.3 
2067
 2.730 
 6.653 
 1.028 
 10.4 
2068
 2.709 
 6.511 
 0.977 
 10.2 
2069
 1.882 
 10.875 
 0.938 
 13.7 
2070
 1.445 
 5.627 
 0.907 
 8.0 
2071
 1.195 
 4.975 
 0.620 
 6.8 
2072
 1.141 
 4.967 
 0.583 
 6.7 
2073
 1.171 
 4.210 
 0.601 
 6.0 
2074
 0.327 
 2.586 
 0.510 
 3.4 
2075
 0.328 
 2.788 
 0.462 
 3.6 
2076
 0.328 
 2.796 
 0.496 
 3.6 
2077
 0.328 
 2.789 
 0.472 
 3.6 
2078
 0.332 
 2.795 
 0.472 
 3.6 
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
52 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Operating and Support Estimates by Cost Element
AN/SPY-6(V)3 Enterprise Air Surveillance Radar  Fixed Face Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)3
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
 - 
- 
 452.7 
 1,628.7 
 325.5 
-
2,406.9
2021
 - 
2022
 - 
2023
 - 
2024
 1.068 
 4.019 
 5.774 
 10.9 
2025
 3.648 
 5.529 
 7.839 
 17.0 
2026
 4.097 
 14.941 
 7.887 
 26.9 
2027
 5.915 
 7.933 
 7.969 
 21.8 
2028
 7.072 
 16.325 
 8.150 
 31.5 
2029
 7.054 
 39.699 
 8.438 
 55.2 
2030
 6.294 
 24.627 
 8.591 
 39.5 
2031
 6.780 
 9.257 
 8.693 
 24.7 
2032
 8.143 
 49.011 
 8.932 
 66.1 
2033
 9.039 
 17.384 
 9.129 
 35.6 
2034
 9.442 
 40.701 
 9.315 
 59.5 
2035
 9.402 
 56.086 
 9.447 
 74.9 
2036
 9.344 
 32.908 
 9.532 
 51.8 
2037
 9.292 
 9.114 
 9.478 
 27.9 
2038
 9.259 
 48.197 
 9.457 
 66.9 
2039
 9.238 
 16.392 
 6.282 
 31.9 
2040
 9.223 
 39.919 
 6.232 
 55.4 
2041
 9.215 
 55.610 
 6.217 
 71.0 
2042
 9.206 
 32.083 
 6.247 
 47.5 
2043
 9.636 
 8.660 
 6.199 
 24.5 
2044
 9.628 
 47.865 
 6.233 
 63.7 
2045
 10.057 
 24.382 
 6.345 
 40.8 
2046
 10.065 
 40.060 
 6.344 
 56.5 
2047
 10.069 
 63.603 
 6.385 
 80.1 
2048
 10.061 
 32.222 
 4.844 
 47.1 
2049
 10.488 
 8.732 
 4.808 
 24.0 
2050
 10.489 
 47.950 
 4.812 
 63.3 
2051
 10.937 
 32.340 
 4.936 
 48.2 
2052
 10.933 
 32.328 
 4.891 
 48.2 
2053
 10.501 
 47.977 
 4.886 
 63.4 
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
53 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
System: AN/SPY-6(V)3
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
2054
 10.063 
 16.562 
 4.878 
 31.5 
2055
 9.170 
 16.472 
 4.792 
 30.4 
2056
 8.282 
 24.218 
 4.613 
 37.1 
2057
 7.397 
 24.138 
 4.460 
 36.0 
2058
 6.515 
 16.211 
 4.269 
 27.0 
2059
 5.643 
 31.822 
 3.064 
 40.5 
2060
 5.206 
 8.268 
 2.935 
 16.4 
2061
 4.766 
 16.093 
 2.807 
 23.7 
2062
 4.762 
 15.976 
 2.704 
 23.4 
2063
 4.758 
 31.669 
 2.787 
 39.2 
2064
 4.763 
 15.973 
 2.789 
 23.5 
2065
 4.720 
 31.405 
 2.772 
 38.9 
2066
 4.651 
 7.047 
 2.794 
 14.5 
2067
 4.181 
 14.589 
 2.790 
 21.6 
2068
 4.146 
 14.393 
 2.713 
 21.3 
2069
 4.100 
 29.741 
 2.732 
 36.6 
2070
 3.989 
 13.407 
 2.770 
 20.2 
2071
 3.961 
 28.893 
 2.756 
 35.6 
2072
 3.876 
 4.990 
 2.783 
 11.6 
2073
 3.862 
 12.715 
 2.801 
 19.4 
2074
 3.895 
 4.980 
 2.806 
 11.7 
2075
 3.926 
 28.572 
 2.831 
 35.3 
2076
 3.438 
 12.506 
 1.431 
 17.4 
2077
 3.450 
 20.439 
 1.379 
 25.3 
2078
 3.517 
 4.849 
 1.380 
 9.7 
2079
 3.234 
 12.584 
 1.426 
 17.2 
2080
 3.565 
 4.507 
 1.330 
 9.4 
2081
 3.514 
 28.041 
 1.330 
 32.9 
2082
 3.467 
 4.509 
 1.399 
 9.4 
2083
 2.975 
 19.890 
 1.297 
 24.2 
2084
 2.937 
 4.215 
 1.245 
 8.4 
2085
 2.903 
 12.059 
 1.315 
 16.3 
2086
 2.873 
 4.215 
 1.239 
 8.3 
2087
 2.846 
 27.759 
 1.246 
 31.9 
2088
 2.821 
 4.227 
 1.316 
 8.4 
2089
 2.799 
 19.962 
 1.240 
 24.0 
2090
 2.779 
 4.242 
 1.247 
 8.3 
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
54 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
System: AN/SPY-6(V)3
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
2091
 2.761 
 12.086 
 1.317 
 16.2 
2092
 2.745 
 4.242 
 1.241 
 8.2 
2093
 2.730 
 19.947 
 1.248 
 23.9 
2094
 2.717 
 4.259 
 1.310 
 8.3 
2095
 2.255 
 11.787 
 1.214 
 15.3 
2096
 2.244 
 3.954 
 1.155 
 7.4 
2097
 1.784 
 11.421 
 1.197 
 14.4 
2098
 1.775 
 3.649 
 1.069 
 6.5 
2099
 1.767 
 11.493 
 1.070 
 14.3 
2100
 1.760 
 3.649 
 1.131 
 6.5 
2101
 1.304 
 3.294 
 1.042 
 5.6 
2102
 1.298 
 3.343 
 0.976 
 5.6 
2103
 0.842 
 2.894 
 1.017 
 4.8 
2104
 0.838 
 3.038 
 0.890 
 4.8 
2105
 0.833 
 10.882 
 0.862 
 12.6 
2106
 0.830 
 3.038 
 0.872 
 4.7 
2107
 0.826 
 3.038 
 0.803 
 4.7 
2108
 0.823 
 3.085 
 0.488 
 4.4 
2109
 0.821 
 3.038 
 0.557 
 4.4 
2110
 0.818 
 3.038 
 0.488 
 4.3 
2111
 0.816 
 2.751 
 0.353 
 3.9 
2112
 0.814 
 2.751 
 0.415 
 4.0 
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
55 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
Annual Operating and Support Estimates by Cost Element
AN/SPY-6(V)4 Subprogram
System: AN/SPY-6(V)4
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
Total
 - 
- 
 926.2 
 1,495.9 
 179.3 
-
2,601.3
2021
 - 
2022
 - 
2023
 - 
2024
 - 
2025
 - 
2026
 17.695 
 17.7 
2027
 0.466 
 5.281 
 3.384 
 9.1 
2028
 2.204 
 7.922 
 6.035 
 16.2 
2029
 4.277 
 9.612 
 6.223 
 20.1 
2030
 7.684 
 25.802 
 6.367 
 39.9 
2031
 10.807 
 26.123 
 6.843 
 43.8 
2032
 13.975 
 42.298 
 7.036 
 63.3 
2033
 17.294 
 43.129 
 7.446 
 67.9 
2034
 20.467 
 43.855 
 7.854 
 72.2 
2035
 23.661 
 45.084 
 5.829 
 74.6 
2036
 26.856 
 61.513 
 6.212 
 94.6 
2037
 30.045 
 63.175 
 6.625 
 99.8 
2038
 33.249 
 78.763 
 6.930 
 118.9 
2039
 36.462 
 79.719 
 7.321 
 123.5 
2040
 39.316 
 80.842 
 7.744 
 127.9 
2041
 40.617 
 81.962 
 8.052 
 130.6 
2042
 40.729 
 81.399 
 8.234 
 130.4 
2043
 40.831 
 65.118 
 4.948 
 110.9 
2044
 40.947 
 49.334 
 4.880 
 95.2 
2045
 41.053 
 65.377 
 4.839 
 111.3 
2046
 36.391 
 48.542 
 4.400 
 89.3 
2047
 33.286 
 48.171 
 4.063 
 85.5 
2048
 33.386 
 48.728 
 3.959 
 86.1 
2049
 31.843 
 64.806 
 3.958 
 100.6 
2050
 30.261 
 47.704 
 3.659 
 81.6 
2051
 28.622 
 46.997 
 3.507 
 79.1 
2052
 27.057 
 45.890 
 3.383 
 76.3 
2053
 23.800 
 45.064 
 3.034 
 71.9 
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
56 | 57

UNCLASSIFIED
SAR Supplement
Dec 2023
System: AN/SPY-6(V)4
 Source for TY-CY Conversion:
fiscal 
year
 1.0 Unit-
Level 
Manpower 
2.0 Unit 
Operations
3.0 
Maintenance
4.0 
Sustaining 
Support
5.0 Continuing 
System 
Improvements
Other
Total CY2013 
($M)
PB25_JIC _18Dec23_OSD_Guidance_with_Survey_Final
Operating and Support Cost Elements
2054
 22.199 
 44.254 
 2.817 
 69.3 
2055
 22.242 
 26.840 
 2.856 
 51.9 
2056
 22.268 
 9.596 
 2.898 
 34.8 
2057
 22.310 
 9.446 
 2.847 
 34.6 
2058
 22.354 
 9.295 
 2.887 
 34.5 
2059
 18.983 
 8.148 
 2.465 
 29.6 
2060
 15.590 
 6.998 
 2.069 
 24.7 
2061
 13.839 
 6.599 
 1.997 
 22.4 
2062
 12.144 
 6.095 
 1.774 
 20.0 
2063
 10.439 
 5.590 
 1.474 
 17.5 
2064
 5.257 
 4.089 
 1.023 
 10.4 
2065
 3.509 
 3.594 
 0.821 
 7.9 
2066
 1.763 
 3.130 
 0.584 
 5.5 
Annual O&S Estimates
UNCLASSIFIED
57 | 57

