 
 
DOD INSTRUCTION 5000.85 
MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION 
 
 
Originating Component: 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
 
Effective: 
August 6, 2020 
Change 1 Effective: 
November 4, 2021 
 
Releasability: 
Cleared for public release.  Available on the Directives Division Website 
at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. 
 
Incorporates and Cancels: Sections 1, 4, and 6, and Enclosures 1, 2, 6, and 8 of DoDI 5000.02T, 
“Operation of the Defense Acquisition System,” January 7, 2015, as 
amended 
 
Approved by: 
Ellen M. Lord, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 
Change 1 Approved by: 
Gregory M. Kausner, Performing the Duties of the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
 
 
Purpose: In accordance with DoD Directive (DoDD) 5135.02, this issuance establishes policy and 
prescribes procedures that guide the acquisition of major capability acquisition programs, including 
major defense acquisition programs (MDAPs); other programs categorized as acquisition category 
(ACAT) I; major systems, usually categorized as ACAT II; automated information systems (AIS) (not 
managed by other acquisition pathways); and other capabilities developed via the major capability 
acquisition pathway.  Wholly and majority National Intelligence Program-funded acquisition programs 
will be executed in accordance with Intelligence Community policy. 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
2 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION .............................................................................. 4 
1.1.  Applicability. .................................................................................................................... 4 
1.2.  Policy. ............................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3.  Summary of Change 1.  .................................................................................................... 4 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................... 6 
2.1.  Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S)). .................. 6 
2.2.  Secretaries of the Military Departments. .......................................................................... 6 
2.3.  Military Service Chiefs. .................................................................................................... 6 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES .......................................................... 8 
3.1.  General Procedures. .......................................................................................................... 8 
a.  Program Planning. .......................................................................................................... 8 
b.  Decision Reviews........................................................................................................... 8 
c.  DoD Process Relationships. ........................................................................................... 9 
3.2.  Flexible Implementation. .................................................................................................. 9 
3.3.  Program ACATs. ............................................................................................................ 10 
3.4.  Acquisition Process Decisions and Phases. .................................................................... 10 
3.5.  MDD. .............................................................................................................................. 11 
3.6.  MSA Phase...................................................................................................................... 11 
3.7.  Milestone A. .................................................................................................................... 12 
3.8.  TMRR Phase. .................................................................................................................. 13 
3.9.  Development RFP Release Decision Point. .................................................................... 14 
3.10.  Milestone B. .................................................................................................................. 15 
3.11.  EMD Phase. .................................................................................................................. 15 
3.12.  Milestone C. .................................................................................................................. 16 
3.13.  P&D Phase. ................................................................................................................... 17 
3.14.  FRP Decision or FD Decision. ..................................................................................... 17 
3.15.  Operations and Support (O&S) Phase. ......................................................................... 18 
APPENDIX 3A:  ACATS ................................................................................................................. 20 
3A.1.  Purpose. ........................................................................................................................ 20 
3A.2.  ACATs. ........................................................................................................................ 20 
a.  Categories. .................................................................................................................... 20 
b. ACAT IB Programs. ..................................................................................................... 21 
c.  Program Recategorization. ........................................................................................... 22 
APPENDIX 3B:  PROGRAM INFORMATION ....................................................................................... 23 
3B.1.  Program Information. ................................................................................................... 23 
3B.2.  Information Selection. .................................................................................................. 23 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS .................................... 24 
3C.1.  Purpose. ........................................................................................................................ 24 
3C.2.  Program Office Structure and Organizations. .............................................................. 24 
a.  Program Office Structure. ............................................................................................ 24 
b.  Joint Program Office Organization. ............................................................................. 24 
3C.3.  Program Management Responsibilities. ....................................................................... 25 
a.  Acquisition Strategies. ................................................................................................. 25 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
3 
b.  Program Baseline Development and Management. ..................................................... 28 
c.  Investment Management. ............................................................................................. 28 
d.  Risk Management. ....................................................................................................... 31 
e.  Configuration Steering Board (CSB). .......................................................................... 33 
3C.4.  International Acquisition and Exportability. ................................................................ 33 
a.  International Acquisition and Exportability Planning. ................................................. 33 
b.  Exportability and International Acquisition Roadmap Study. ..................................... 34 
c.  International Cooperative Program (ICP) Management. ............................................. 34 
3C.5.  Industrial Base Analysis and Considerations. .............................................................. 34 
3C.6.  Records Management. .................................................................................................. 35 
GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................... 36 
G.1.  Acronyms. ...................................................................................................................... 36 
G.2.  Definitions. ..................................................................................................................... 38 
REFERENCES .................................................................................................................................. 39 
TABLES 
Table 1. Description and Decision Authority for ACAT I – III Programs. .................................. 20 
FIGURES 
Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework. ..................................................................................5 
Figure 2.  Major Capability Acquisition Model. ............................................................................10 
Figure 3.  Options Matrix...............................................................................................................29 
Figure 4.  Sample Program Cost, Fielding, and Performance Goals Memorandum. ....................30 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
4 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
1.1.  APPLICABILITY. 
This issuance applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector 
General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all 
other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this issuance as the “DoD 
Components”). 
1.2.  POLICY. 
a.  The overarching management principles that guide the defense acquisition system are set 
forth in Paragraph 1.2. of DoDD 5000.01. 
b.  In accordance with DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02, it is DoD policy to deliver 
operationally effective, suitable, survivable, affordable, secure, and supportable solutions to the 
end user in a timely manner. 
(1)  To that end, the DoD will prioritize speed of delivery, security, continuous 
adaptation, and frequent modular upgrades to ensure a highly effective and lethal force. 
(2)  To achieve that objective, the DoD will employ an adaptive acquisition framework 
(Figure 1), comprised of acquisition pathways, each tailored for the unique characteristics and 
risk profile of the capability being acquired. 
1.3.  SUMMARY OF CHANGE 1. 
This change is administrative and: 
a.  Updates the references list. 
b.  Removes Appendix 3D of this issuance and updates affected references pursuant to 
DoDI 5000.91. 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
5 
Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework. 
December 2019
xxCybersecurity
Path
Selection
Defense 
Business 
Systems
Middle Tier
of
Acquisition
Acquisition 
of Services
Major 
Capability
Acquisition
Urgent
Capability
Acquisition
OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINMENT
Business Capability Acquisition Cycle
< 2 years
Software
Acquisition
Rapid
Prototyping
Capability
Need
Identification
Solution
Analysis
Functional
Requirements and 
Acquisition 
Planning
Acquisition,
Testing, and 
Deployment
Capability
Support
Planning
Phase
I1
I2…
MVP
MVCR
Rn
OD
Rapid 
Fielding
1
0
Materiel
Solutions
Analysis
Technology
Maturation and 
Risk Reduction
Engineering and  
Manufacturing
Development
Production 
and
Deployment
MDD
MS A
MS B
MS C
IOC FOC
ATP
ATP
ATP
ATP
In
In
In
Execution Phase
OD
≤ 5 years
< 1 year
DD
Tenets of the Defense Acquisition System
1. Simplify Acquisition Policy
2. Tailor Acquisition Approaches
3. Empower Program Managers
4. Conduct Data Driven Analysis
5. Actively Manage Risk
6. Emphasize Sustainment
DoDD 5000.01: The Defense Acquisition System
DoDI 5000.02: Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework
Legend:
ATP: Authority to Proceed
DD: Disposition Decision
FOC: Full Operational Capability
I: Iteration
IOC: Initial Operational Capability
MDD: Materiel Development Decision
MS: Milestone
MVCR: Minimum Viable Capability Release
MVP: Minimum Viable Product
OD: Outcome Determination
R: Release
≤ 5 years
PLAN
DEVELOP
EXECUTE
1
Form 
the 
Team
2
Review
Current
Strategy
3
Perform 
Market 
Research
4
Define 
Require-
ments
5
Develop
Acquisition
Strategy
6
Execute 
Strategy
7
Manage 
Performance
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
6 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
The responsibilities in this section are in addition to those specified in DoDD 5000.01. 
2.1.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT 
(USD(A&S)). 
The USD(A&S) is the Defense Acquisition Executive (DAE) and establishes policies on and 
supervises all elements of the Department relating to acquisition (including system design, 
development, and production and procurement of goods and services) and sustainment (including 
logistics, maintenance, and materiel readiness). 
2.2.  SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS. 
The Secretary of the Military Department acquiring an MDAP represents the customer (i.e., the 
DoD Component(s) fielding the system).  The Secretary acquiring an MDAP: 
a.  In coordination with the Military Service Chiefs, balances resources against priorities and 
ensures appropriate trade-offs are made among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and 
performance throughout the life of the program. 
b.  Ensures that the requirements document supporting a Milestone B or subsequent decision 
for an MDAP are not approved until the Service Chief determines in writing that the 
requirements in the document are necessary and realistic in relation to the program cost and 
fielding targets established pursuant to Section 2448a of Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.). 
2.3.  MILITARY SERVICE CHIEFS. 
a.  The Military Service Chiefs, not including the Commandant of the United States Coast 
Guard, assist the Secretary of the Military Department concerned in performing the acquisition-
related functions outlined in Paragraphs (1) through (6): 
(1)  Decisions regarding the balancing of resources and priorities, and associated trade-
offs among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and performance on MDAPs. 
(2)  The coordination of measures to control requirements creep. 
(3)  The recommendation of trade-offs among life-cycle cost, schedule, and performance 
objectives, and procurement quantity objectives, to ensure acquisition programs deliver best 
value in meeting the approved military requirements. 
(4)  Termination of development or procurement programs for which life-cycle cost, 
schedule, and performance expectations are no longer consistent with approved military 
requirements and levels of priority, or which no longer have approved military requirements. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
7 
(5)  The development and management of career paths in acquisition for military 
personnel pursuant to Section 1722a of Title 10, U.S.C. 
(6)  The assignment and training of contracting officer representatives when such 
representatives are required to be members of the armed forces because of the nature of the 
contract concerned. 
b.  For MDAPs, the Service Chief, or for joint programs, the Service Chiefs concerned, 
concur: 
(1)  With the need for a materiel solution as identified in the materiel development 
decision (MDD) review prior to entry into the materiel solution analysis (MSA) phase. 
(2)  With the cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and performance trade-offs that have 
been made with regard to the program before Milestone A approval is granted pursuant to 
Section 2366a of Title 10, U.S.C. 
(3)  That appropriate trade-offs among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and 
performance objectives have been made to ensure that the program is affordable when 
considering the per unit cost and the total life-cycle cost before Milestone B approval is granted 
pursuant to Section 2366b of Title 10, U.S.C. 
(4)  Before Milestone C approval is granted, that the requirements in the requirements 
document are necessary and realistic in relation to program cost and fielding targets, pursuant to 
Section 2448a of Title 10, U.S.C. 
c.  The Service Chiefs fielding MDAPs will represent the customer, and will advise the 
milestone decision authority (MDA) on trade-offs before Milestones A and B. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
8 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
3.1.  GENERAL PROCEDURES. 
a.  Program Planning. 
(1)  A rapid, iterative approach to capability development reduces cost, avoids 
technological obsolescence, and reduces acquisition risk.  Consistent with that intent, 
acquisitions will rely on mature, proven technologies and early testing.  Planning will capitalize 
on commercial solutions and non-traditional suppliers, and expand the role of warfighters and 
security, counterintelligence, and intelligence analysis throughout the acquisition process. 
(2)  Acquisition programs will be designed to facilitate capability enhancements by using 
open systems architectures and common, open, and consensus-based standards.  An open system 
design supports sustainment and rapid integration of new or updated subsystems into the 
platform. 
(3)  To facilitate a flexible and rapid acquisition process, MDAs, program managers 
(PMs), and other relevant authorities will implement the processes described in Paragraph 3.2. 
b.  Decision Reviews. 
The purpose of decision reviews embedded in the acquisition procedures described in this 
section is to carefully assess a program’s readiness to proceed to the next acquisition phase and 
to make a sound investment decision committing the Department’s financial resources.  
Consequently, reviews will be issue and data focused to facilitate an examination of relevant 
questions affecting the decisions under consideration and to allow the MDA to judge whether the 
program is ready to proceed.  The policies outlined in Paragraphs (1) through (3) will guide 
decision reviews: 
(1)  The MDA is the sole and final decision authority.  Staff members and staff 
organizations support and facilitate the MDA's execution of that authority. 
(2)  The Defense Acquisition Board will advise the DAE on critical acquisition decisions 
when the DAE, or designee, is the MDA.  The DAE or designee will chair the Defense 
Acquisition Board.  Similar procedures will be established at the DoD Component level for use 
by other MDAs.  An acquisition decision memorandum (ADM) will document decisions 
resulting from reviews. 
(3)  Overarching Integrated Product Teams at the OSD level, and similar organizations 
within the DoD Components, are expected to collectively assist the MDA in making sound 
investment decisions for the department, and to ensure programs are structured and resourced to 
succeed.  These organizations are not decision bodies and they and their leaders do not supplant 
the authority of the PM, Program Executive Officer (PEO), component acquisition executive 
(CAE), or DAE. 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
9 
c.  DoD Process Relationships. 
Acquisition, requirements, and budgeting are closely related and must operate simultaneously 
in close coordination.  Validated requirements provide the basis for defining the products that 
will be acquired through the acquisition system.  The budgeting process determines DoD 
priorities and resource allocations and provides the funds necessary to execute planned 
programs.  Adjustments may have to be made during a program’s life cycle to keep the three 
processes aligned to ensure programs are executable and to adapt to evolving circumstances.  
Decisions in this context must consider mission area or portfolio considerations as well as those 
directly impacting the program under review. 
3.2.  FLEXIBLE IMPLEMENTATION. 
a.  MDAs will structure program strategies and oversight, phase content, the timing and 
scope of decision reviews, and decision levels based on the specifics of the product being 
acquired, including complexity, risk, security, and urgency to satisfy validated capability 
requirements. 
b.  PMs will “tailor-in” the regulatory information that will be used to describe their program 
at the MDD or program inception.  In this context, “tailor-in” means that the PM will identify 
and recommend for MDA approval, the regulatory information that will be employed to 
document program plans and how that information will be formatted and provided for review by 
the decision authority. 
(1)  The PM’s recommendation will be reviewed by the MDA and the decision will be 
documented in an ADM. 
(2)  MDAs will resolve issues related to implementation of this approach, and will 
coordinate, when necessary, with other regulatory document approval authorities to facilitate its 
implementation. 
(3)  Statutory requirements will not be waived unless permitted by the relevant statute. 
c.  Technologies successfully demonstrated in an operational environment via the Rapid 
Prototyping procedures in the Middle Tier Acquisition pathway, or other prototyping authorities, 
may be transitioned to major capability acquisition programs at decision points proposed by the 
PM and approved by the MDA.  The technologies may provide the technical foundation for a 
formal acquisition program, incrementally improve a program capability in support of approved 
requirements, or support the development and insertion of more efficient program components.  
Similarly, products and technologies that have been successfully demonstrated via the Rapid 
Fielding procedures under the Middle Tier Acquisition pathway may provide the basis for a 
program developed in accordance with the procedures in this issuance.  PMs for Middle Tier 
programs will identify and develop the statutory and regulatory information needed to facilitate 
an efficient pathway transition.  DoDI 5000.80 provides additional direction for middle tier 
acquisitions. 
d.  The Defense Acquisition Guidebook (DAG), available online at 
https://www.dau.edu/tools/dag, provides the acquisition workforce with discretionary best 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
10 
practice that should be tailored to the needs of each program.  The DAG is intended to inform 
thoughtful program planning and facilitate effective program management. 
3.3.  PROGRAM ACATS. 
All major capability acquisition pathway programs are designated by an ACAT.  The ACAT 
identifies the program’s MDA, required processes, and documents.  The details regarding 
ACATs, decision authority and associated policy are presented in Appendix 3A. 
3.4.  ACQUISITION PROCESS DECISIONS AND PHASES. 
a.  Acquisition decisions will be made at the lowest authorized level, commensurate with the 
ACAT and program risk, to ensure they are timely, and made by those with the greatest 
knowledge of the program. 
b.  Figure 2 depicts the major capability acquisition model.  The paragraphs that follow 
describe the decision points and activity phases that apply to almost any acquisition. 
c.  Appendix 3B discusses the information requirements that apply throughout the phases and 
decision points, subject to PM and MDA decisions and statutory requirements. 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  Major Capability Acquisition Model. 
B
A
C
=  Milestone Decision
=  Decision Point
Legend:
Materiel 
Development 
Decision
CDD 
Validation
Full Rate Production /
Full Deployment 
Decision
Development 
RFP 
Release 
Decision
Initial 
Operational 
Capability 
(IOC)
Full 
Operational 
Capability 
(FOC)
Materiel 
Solution 
Analysis
Technology 
Maturation & 
Risk
Reduction
Production & 
Deployment
Engineering & 
Manufacturing 
Development
Disposal
Low Rate Initial Production /
Limited Deployment
Operational Test and
Evaluation (OT&E)
Operations & Support
Sustainment
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
11 
3.5.  MDD. 
a.  Purpose. 
The MDD is the mandatory entry point into the major capability acquisition process and is 
informed by a validated requirements document (e.g., an initial capabilities document (ICD) or 
equivalent) and the completion of the analysis of alternatives (AoA) study guidance and the AoA 
study plan. 
b.  At the MDD Review. 
The Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (DCAPE) (or DoD Component 
equivalent for ACAT II or below programs) will present the AoA study guidance, and the DoD 
Component will present the AoA study plan.  For MDAPs, DCAPE issues the AoA study 
guidance, and approves the AoA study plan.  The DoD Component will provide the plan to staff 
and fund program activities up to and including the next decision point, usually Milestone A. 
c.  Decisions. 
The MDA will determine the acquisition phase of entry and the initial review milestone.  
MDA decisions will be documented in an ADM.  The approved AoA study guidance and study 
plan will be attached to the ADM. 
3.6.  MSA PHASE. 
a.  Purpose. 
The purpose of this phase is to conduct the AoA and other activities needed to choose the 
concept for the product to be acquired, to begin translating validated capability gaps into system-
specific requirements, and to conduct planning to support a decision on the acquisition strategy 
for the product. 
b.  Phase Description. 
(1)  The MSA phase will be guided by the ICD and the AoA study plan.  Phase activity 
will focus on identification and analysis of alternatives, measures of effectiveness, key trades 
between cost and capability, life-cycle cost, schedule, concepts of operations, and overall risk.  
The AoA will inform and be informed by affordability analysis, sustainment considerations, 
early systems engineering analysis, threat projections, and coalition interoperability as identified 
in the ICD. 
(2)  During this phase, the CAE will select a PM and establish a program office to 
complete the actions necessary to plan the acquisition program and prepare for the next decision 
point.  The actions described in Paragraph 3.2.b. will be completed in time to support planning 
for the initial program milestone. 
(3)  MDAP MDAs will establish program goals consistent with the procedures in 
Paragraph 3C.3.(c)(1) of this issuance.  An independent cost estimate (ICE) and independent 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
12 
technical risk assessment (ITRA) will be conducted before granting Milestone A approval for an 
MDAP. 
(4)  Product support (PS) and sustainment planning begin during this phase and support 
the determination of core logistics capability requirements. 
(5)  The phase ends when the DoD Component has completed the necessary analysis and 
the activities necessary to support a decision to proceed to the next decision point/phase in the 
acquisition process. 
3.7.  MILESTONE A. 
a.  Purpose. 
(1)  Milestone A approves program entry into the technology maturation and risk 
reduction (TMRR) phase, approval of the program acquisition strategy, and release of the final 
request for proposals (RFPs) for TMRR activities.  A draft capability development document 
(CDD) approved by the DoD Component informs the acquisition strategy and the RFP for 
TMRR. 
(2)  Principal considerations include: 
(a)  Justification for and the affordability and feasibility of the preferred military 
solution; 
(b)  Identification of the technologies that must be matured during the TMRR phase; 
(c)  The scope of the capability requirement trade space and an understanding of the 
priorities within that trade space; 
(d)  Technical, cost and schedule risks, and the plans and funding to offset them 
during the TMRR phase; 
(e)  A proposed acquisition strategy, including intellectual property (IP), program 
protection, and exportability and acquisition planning; 
(f)  The test strategy; 
(g)  A life-cycle mission data plan for each intelligence mission data-dependent 
program (including cyber) and the projected threat and its impact on the materiel solution. 
b.  At the Milestone A Review. 
(1)  The PM will present the acquisition strategy, the business approach, “Should Cost” 
targets, framing assumptions, an assessment of program risk and planned mitigation actions, and 
initial PS planning. 
(2)  For MDAPs, the DoD Component will present a quantitatively supported 
affordability analysis based on the resources projected to be available in the DoD Component 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
13 
portfolio(s) or mission area(s) associated with the program under consideration.  Similar, 
appropriately-scaled affordability analyses will be required for all other programs.  The analysis 
will demonstrate the DoD Component’s ability to afford the program over its life cycle, and the 
DoD Component will demonstrate that the program will be fully funded within the Future Years 
Defense Program (FYDP). 
(3)  Pursuant to Section 2366a of Title 10, U.S.C., MDAs for MDAPs must determine, 
with a high degree of confidence, that the technology developed within the program will not 
delay the fielding target of the program.  If the MDA determines that a technology related to a 
major system component will delay the program: 
(a)  The technology must be sufficiently matured and demonstrated in a relevant 
environment separate from the program, using the prototyping authorities in subchapter II of 
Chapter 144B of Title 10, U.S.C., or other authorities, as appropriate. 
(b)  The MDA must have an effective plan for adoption or insertion by the relevant 
program. 
c.  Decisions. 
The MDA will approve the acquisition strategy to determine the materiel solution, the 
strategy for the TMRR phase, PM waiver requests, release of the final RFP for the TMRR phase, 
exit criteria required to complete TMRR, and entrance criteria for the engineering and 
manufacturing development (EMD) phase.  The MDA will document decisions in an ADM. 
3.8.  TMRR PHASE. 
a.  Purpose. 
The TMRR phase is guided by the draft CDD and the acquisition strategy.  The purpose of 
this phase is to reduce technology, engineering, integration and life-cycle cost risk to the point 
that a decision to contract for EMD can be made with confidence in successful program 
execution for development, production and sustainment. 
b.  Phase Description. 
(1)  This phase includes a mix of activities intended to reduce program risks.  These 
include the design and requirements trades necessary to ensure an affordable product and an 
executable development and production program.  Close collaboration with the requirements 
community is essential and will inform development and validation of the CDD. 
(2)  The acquisition strategy will describe the overall approach to acquiring the capability 
and include the program schedule, risks, funding, business strategy, and an IP strategy.  PS and 
sustainment planning continues during this phase and will include consideration of data rights.  
Program security and program protection requirements will be evaluated.  Unless waived by the 
MDA, a preliminary design review (PDR) will be conducted prior to Milestone B.  This phase 
normally includes multiple competitive sources conducting technology risk reduction activity to 
demonstrate new technologies in a relevant environment.  An ICE and an ITRA will be 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
14 
conducted for MDAPs, before granting Milestone B approval.  Development testing will be 
guided by the test and evaluation master plan. 
c.  CDD Validation. 
During the TMRR phase, the requirements validation authority will validate the CDD (or 
equivalent requirements document) for the program.  This action will precede the Development 
RFP release decision point. 
3.9.  DEVELOPMENT RFP RELEASE DECISION POINT. 
a.  Purpose and Objective. 
(1)  The purpose of the Development RFP release decision point is to ensure, prior to the 
release of the solicitation for EMD, that an executable and affordable program has been planned 
using a sound business and technical approach. 
(2)  The objective is to ensure that the program requirements to be proposed against are 
firm and clearly stated, that the risk of committing to development (and eventually production) 
has been adequately reduced, that program security has been accommodated, and the program 
strategy and business approach are structured to provide value to the government while treating 
industry fairly. 
b.  At the Release Decision. 
The PM will summarize TMRR phase progress and results and detail the strategy for the 
EMD phase.  Specific attention will be given to overall affordability, the strategy for maintaining 
competition throughout the program life cycle, source selection criteria, contract incentives, the 
IP strategy, threat projections, assessments of foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI), 
and the use of a modular open systems approach (MOSA) to evolve systems capability and 
establish and maintain interoperability. 
c.  Decisions. 
The MDA will approve the release of the final RFP for the EMD phase and determine the 
preliminary low-rate initial production (LRIP) quantity or, for an AIS, the scope of limited 
deployment at this decision point.  Decisions resulting from the decision review will be 
documented in an ADM.  The ADM will include specific criteria required for Milestone C 
approval including test and evaluation accomplishments, exportability and international 
acquisition planning, LRIP quantities or the limited deployment scope, affordability 
requirements and program goals, finalized sustainment metrics, and FYDP funding requirements. 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
15 
3.10.  MILESTONE B. 
a.  Purpose. 
The Milestone B decision authorizes a program to enter into the EMD phase and commit the 
required investment resources to support the award of phase contracts.  Requirements for this 
milestone may have been satisfied at the Development RFP release decision point; however, if 
significant changes have occurred between the two decisions that would alter the decisions made 
at the earlier point, those changes will be addressed at the Milestone B review. 
b.  At the Milestone B Review. 
This review requires demonstration that all sources of risk have been adequately mitigated to 
support a commitment to design, development and production.  Risk sources include, but are not 
limited to, technology, threat projections, security, engineering, integration, manufacturing, 
sustainment and cost risk.  Validated capability requirements are required for all programs.  Full 
funding in the FYDP, compliance with affordability/program goals demonstrated through 
technical assessments and ICEs are required for MDAPs and programs in other categories when 
directed. 
c.  Decisions. 
The MDA will approve entry into the EMD phase and formally initiate the program by 
approving the acquisition program baseline (APB).  The program decisions, EMD phase exit 
criteria, approval of the LRIP quantity, and specific technical event-based criteria for initiating 
production or fielding at Milestone C will be documented in an ADM. 
3.11.  EMD PHASE. 
a.  Purpose. 
The purpose of the EMD phase is to develop, build, test, and evaluate a materiel solution to 
verify that all operational and implied requirements, including those for security, have been met, 
and to support production, deployment and sustainment decisions. 
b.  Phase Description. 
(1)  The program will complete all needed hardware and software detailed designs.  A 
critical design review assesses design maturity, design build-to or code-to documentation, and 
remaining risks, and establishes the initial technical baseline.  It will be used as the decision 
point that the system design is ready to begin pre-production prototype hardware fabrication or 
software coding with acceptable risk.  If a preliminary design review prior to Milestone B was 
waived, it will be scheduled as early as possible during this phase. 
(2)  Developmental testing and evaluation provides hardware and software feedback to 
the PM on the progress of the design process and on the product’s compliance with contractual 
requirements, effective combat capability, and the ability to achieve key performance parameters 
(KPPs) and key system attributes (KSAs).  The DoD Component’s operational test organization 
will conduct independent evaluations, operational assessments, or limited user tests to provide 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
16 
initial assessments of operational effectiveness, suitability, survivability, and the ability to satisfy 
KPPs and KSAs.  Opportunities to combine contractor and Government developmental testing 
should be maximized, and integrated developmental and operational testing will be conducted 
when feasible. 
(3)  The PM will finalize designs for PS elements and integrate them into a 
comprehensive support package that is documented in a PS Strategy (PSS).  The program will 
demonstrate PS performance through appropriate verification means that satisfy the sustainment 
requirements within the MDA-approved program goals established at Milestone A. 
(4)  Training devices will be planned, funded, designed, and developed in parallel with 
the operational system to ensure that the training devices properly replicate the capability in 
development.  The training strategy will be evaluated during testing and evaluation events. 
(5)  Release of any RFPs for the production and deployment (P&D) phase must be 
approved by the MDA.  A current acquisition strategy and applicable elements of the RFP will 
be required to support this decision. 
(6)  The EMD phase will end when the design is stable; the system meets validated 
capability requirements demonstrated by developmental, live fire (as appropriate), and early 
operational testing; manufacturing processes have been effectively demonstrated and are under 
control; software sustainment processes are in place and functioning; industrial production 
capabilities are reasonably available; program security remains uncompromised; and the program 
has met or exceeds all directed EMD phase exit criteria and Milestone C entrance criteria per the 
MDA’s direction.  An ICE and an ITRA will be conducted for MDAPs before beginning LRIP. 
3.12.  MILESTONE C. 
a.  Purpose. 
Milestone C is the point at which a program is reviewed for entrance into the P&D phase. 
b.  At the Milestone C Review. 
The following information will typically be considered: the results of developmental tests 
and evaluations and any early operational test and evaluation; evidence that the production 
design is stable; the results of an operational assessment (if conducted); the maturity of the 
software; any significant manufacturing risks; the status of critical intelligence parameters and 
intelligence mission data requirements, relative to fielding timelines; and full funding. 
c.  Decisions. 
The MDA’s decision to approve Milestone C will authorize the program to proceed to the 
P&D phase, enter LRIP, or begin limited deployment for AISs, and award contracts for the 
phase. 
d.  High Cost First Article Combined Milestone B and C Decisions. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
17 
Some programs such as spacecraft and ships will not produce prototypes during EMD for use 
solely as test articles because of the high cost of each article.  In that case, the first article 
produced will be tested and evaluated, and then fielded as an operational asset.  The acquisition 
approach for these programs can be tailored by measures such as combining development and 
initial production investment commitments and a combined Milestone B and C.  Additional 
decision points with appropriate criteria may be established for subsequent production 
commitments. 
3.13.  P&D PHASE. 
a.  Purpose. 
The purpose of the P&D phase is to produce and deploy requirements-compliant materiel 
solutions to the receiving operating organizations. 
b.  Phase Description. 
The P&D phase is guided by an updated CDD if required, the acquisition strategy, and the 
test and evaluation master plan.  In this phase the product is produced and fielded or deployed for 
use by operational units. 
(1)  The phase includes a number of key events: LRIP, personnel training, completion of 
developmental test and evaluation (if required), initial operational test and evaluation, and the 
full-rate production (FRP) or full-deployment (FD) decision.  In this phase, all system 
sustainment and support activities are initiated if not already begun, and the appropriate 
operational authority will declare initial operational capability (IOC) when the defined 
operational organization has been equipped and trained and is determined to be capable of 
conducting mission operations.  “Should cost” management and other techniques will be used 
continuously to control and reduce costs. 
(2)  For MDAPs, and other programs on the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
(DOT&E) Oversight List, the DOT&E will provide a report providing the opinion of the 
DOT&E as to whether the program is operationally effective, suitable and survivable before the 
MDA makes the decision to proceed beyond LRIP or limited deployment.  If LRIP is not 
conducted for programs on the DOT&E oversight list, production representative test articles 
must be provided for the conduct of operational and live fire testing. 
3.14.  FRP DECISION OR FD DECISION. 
The MDA will conduct an FRP decision review to assess the results of initial OT&E and initial 
manufacturing to determine whether to proceed to FRP.  Proceeding to FRP requires control of 
the manufacturing process, acceptable performance and reliability, the establishment of adequate 
sustainment and support systems, and for MDAPs, an ICE and an ITRA.  This decision will be 
informed by consideration of any new validated threat environments that might affect operational 
effectiveness.  The MDA may consult with the requirements validation authority as part of the 
decision making process to ensure that capability requirements are current.  The MDA will 
document the results of the review in an ADM. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
SECTION 3:  MAJOR CAPABILITY ACQUISITION PROCEDURES 
18 
3.15.  OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT (O&S) PHASE. 
a.  Purpose. 
This phase executes the PSS, satisfies materiel readiness and operational support 
performance requirements including personnel training, and sustains the system over its life 
cycle, including disposal.  The O&S phase begins upon fielding of the first system(s), which may 
precede IOC, and is based on an MDA-approved PSS. 
b.  Phase Description. 
This phase includes two major efforts: sustainment and disposal.  The MDA-approved PSS is 
the basis for the activities conducted during this phase. 
(1)  Sustainment. 
During this phase the PM will deploy the support package and monitor its performance 
according to the PSS. 
(a)  The PM will ensure that resources are programmed; IP deliverables and 
associated license rights, tools, equipment, and facilities have been programmed and acquired to 
support each of the levels of maintenance that will provide PS; and necessary organic depot 
maintenance capability, consistent with statute and the PSS, are established.  A successful 
program meets sustainment performance requirements without compromise to the security and 
integrity of the capability or service delivery, remains affordable, and continues to seek cost 
reductions by applying “should cost” management and other cost reduction techniques. 
(b)  During O&S, the PM will measure, assess, and report system readiness using 
sustainment metrics, and implement corrective actions for trends diverging from the required 
performance outcomes defined in the APB and the PSS.  Over the program life cycle, operational 
needs, training requirements, technology advances, evolving threats, process improvements, 
fiscal constraints, plans for follow-on systems, changes to the industrial base, or a combination 
of these influences may warrant revision to the PSS. 
(c)  When revising the PSS, the PM will revalidate the supportability analysis and 
review the most current PS requirements, senior leader guidance, and fiscal assumptions to 
evaluate system support changes or alternatives to determine best value. 
(2)  Disposal. 
At the end of its useful life, a system will be demilitarized and disposed of in accordance 
with all legal and regulatory requirements and policy relating to safety (including explosives 
safety), security, and the environment, in accordance with the PSS.  Disposal planning will 
include consideration of retirement, disposition, and reclamation. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3A:  ACATS 
19 
APPENDIX 3A:  ACATS 
3A.1.  PURPOSE. 
This appendix provides the descriptions and dollar thresholds for the ACATs, and prescribes the 
policy for assignment of the MDAs. 
3A.2.  ACATS. 
a.  Categories. 
An acquisition program will be categorized based on the criteria in Table 1.  Table 1 contains 
the description and decision authority for ACAT I through ACAT III programs.  The DAE or 
designee will review ACAT ID programs.  Pursuant to Section 2430 of Title 10, U.S.C., the 
service acquisition executive (SAE) will review ACAT IB programs unless otherwise specified.  
The CAE will review ACAT IC programs.  The CAE, or the individual designated by the CAE, 
will review ACAT II and ACAT III and below programs. 
Table 1.  Description and Decision Authority for ACAT I – III Programs. 
 
ACAT 
Reason for ACAT Designation 
Decision Authority 
ACAT I 
• MDAP1 (Section 2430 of Title 10, U.S.C.) 
o Dollar value for all increments of the program: estimated by the DAE to require 
an eventual total expenditure for research, development, and test and evaluation 
of more than $525 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2020 constant dollars or, for 
procurement, of more than $3.065 billion in FY 2020 constant dollars 
o MDA designation 
• MDA designation as special interest3 
ACAT ID: DAE 
ACAT IB: SAE2 
ACAT IC: Head of 
the DoD Component 
or, if delegated, the 
CAE 
ACAT II 
• Does not meet criteria for ACAT I 
• Major system (Section 2302d of Title 10, U.S.C.) 
o Dollar value: estimated by the DoD Component head to require an eventual total 
expenditure for research, development, and test and evaluation of more than $200 
million in FY 2020 constant dollars, or for procurement of more than $920 
million in FY 2020 constant dollars 
o MDA designation (Section 2302 of Title 10, U.S.C.) 
CAE or the 
individual 
designated by the 
CAE4 
ACAT III • Does not meet dollar value thresholds for ACAT II or above 
• Is not designated a “major system” by the MDA 
Designated by the 
CAE4 
Footnotes 
1.   Unless designated an MDAP by the Secretary of Defense (SecDef), AIS programs5, Defense Business System 
programs, and programs or projects carried out using rapid prototyping or fielding procedures pursuant to Section 804 of 
Public Law (PL) 114-92, do not meet the definition of an MDAP. 
2.  ACAT IB decision authority is assigned pursuant to Section 2430 of Title 10, U.S.C.  Paragraph 3A.2.b. provides DoD 
implementation details. 
3.  The Special Interest designation is typically based on one or more of the following factors: technological complexity; 
congressional interest; a large commitment of resources; or the program is critical to the achievement of a capability or set 
of capabilities, part of a system of systems, or a joint program.  Programs that already meet the MDAP thresholds cannot be 
designated as Special Interest. 
4.  As delegated by the SecDef or Secretary of the Military Department. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3A:  ACATS 
20 
 
Table 1.  Description and Decision Authority for ACAT I – III Programs, Continued. 
Footnotes 
5.  An AIS is a system of computer hardware, computer software, data or telecommunications that performs functions such 
as collecting, processing, storing, transmitting, and displaying information. Excluded are computer resources, both 
hardware and software, that are: embedded as an integral part of a weapon or weapon system; used for highly sensitive 
classified programs (as determined by the SecDef) or other highly sensitive information technology programs (as 
determined by the DoD Chief Information Officer; or determined by the DAE or designee to be better overseen as a non-
AIS program (e.g., a program with a low ratio of research, development, testing, and evaluation funding to total program 
acquisition costs or that requires significant hardware development). An AIS that breaches the dollar thresholds in Section 
2302d of Title 10, U.S.C., as adjusted, is a “major system.” 
b. ACAT IB Programs. 
(1)  Pursuant to Subsection (d) of Section 2430, of Title 10, U.S.C., the SAE of the 
Military Department that is managing an MDAP reaching Milestone A after October 1, 2016 will 
be the MDA for the MDAP unless, based on one or more exceptions in the statute, the SecDef 
designates an alternate MDA.  In accordance with DoDD 5135.02, the SecDef has delegated the 
authority to designate an alternate MDA for an MDAP to the USD(A&S). 
(2)  At least annually, at submission of the Program Objective Memorandum, each SAE 
will provide, in writing, sufficient information to allow the USD(A&S) to consider whether any 
of the bases for designation of an alternate MDA as set forth in Section 2430(d) of Title 10, 
U.S.C., apply.  This information must be provided for all programs for which the Military 
Department anticipates an MDD or a Milestone A decision (or later milestone decision if this 
will be the program's first milestone) in the first year of the Program Objective Memorandum 
FYDP and that are estimated to require eventual total expenditures of funds for all increments 
that exceed the MDAP dollar value thresholds set in Section 2430 of Title 10, U.S.C., as adjusted 
and specified in Table 1. 
(3)  Programs, for which the SAE is the MDA by operation of Section 2430 of Title 10, 
U.S.C., will be designated within the DoD as ACAT IB programs to differentiate these programs 
from ACAT ID programs, where the USD(A&S) is the MDA, or ACAT IC programs, where the 
USD(A&S) as the DAE has delegated the DAE's decision authority to the SAE.  Should the 
USD(A&S) designate the DAE or other official as the alternate MDA the ACAT IB program 
will be re-designated as ACAT ID. 
(4)  Pursuant to subparagraph (d)(3)(A) of Section 2430, of Title 10, U.S.C., for programs 
for which the USD(A&S) has designated an alternate MDA, the Secretary of the Military 
Department concerned, or designee, may request reversion of responsibility back to the SAE.  
The USD(A&S) must make a decision with regard to the Military Department's request within 
180 days after receiving the request.  In the event the MDA for the program reverts back to the 
SAE, either at the request of the Military Department or at the DAE's discretion, the program 
would revert from its ACAT ID designation to an ACAT IB designation. 
(5)  SAEs managing ACAT IB programs must continue to comply with all statutes that 
require information about an MDAP to be provided to OSD or the Office of the USD(A&S).  For 
example, Section 2432 of Title 10, U.S.C., requires the SecDef to submit Selected Acquisition 
Reports (SARs) for MDAPs.  For ACAT IB programs, the Military Departments must continue 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3A:  ACATS 
21 
to use the Defense Acquisition Visibility Environment system for preparation and management 
of APBs and SARs, to enable continued efficient and streamlined execution of Congressional 
reporting for all MDAPs, including ACAT IB programs, through the Principal Deputy Assistant 
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition Enablers). 
(6)  The Military Departments will use the Defense Acquisition Management Information 
Retrieval system for the ACAT IB program quarterly unit cost reporting required by Section 
2433 of Title 10, U.S.C., and will continue to report other quarterly DAE Summary information. 
(7)  All programs that have been initiated by having entered the acquisition management 
system at either Milestone A or a later milestone before October 1, 2016, and that are designated 
as either an ACAT ID or ACAT IC program, will continue to follow the acquisition information 
and reporting requirements described in this issuance. 
c.  Program Re-categorization. 
The MDA will consider re-categorization when at any point in a program there is program 
cost growth within 10 percent of the next highest ACAT level. 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3B:  PROGRAM INFORMATION 
22 
APPENDIX 3B:  PROGRAM INFORMATION 
This appendix identifies the information applicable to programs employing the major capability 
acquisition pathway and specifies the policy applicable to information selection. 
3B.1.  PROGRAM INFORMATION. 
a.  The tables described in Paragraphs 3B.1.a(1) through 3B.1.a (9) identify program 
information requirements, and have been placed online at 
https://www.dau.edu/mdid/Pages/Default.aspx to facilitate access to content: 
(1)  Milestone and phase information requirements. 
(2)  APB. 
(3)  Statutory program breach definitions. 
(4)  Recurring program reports. 
(5)  Exceptions, waivers, and alternative management and reporting requirements. 
(6)  Cost and software data reporting (CSDR). 
(7)  Earned value management system (EVMS) application requirements. 
(8)  EVMS reporting requirements. 
(9)  Actions associated with Clinger Cohen Act compliance. 
b.  PMs must comply with the online requirements, consistent with the policy specified in 
this issuance.  Requirements set out at https://www.dau.edu/mdid/Pages/Default.aspx are to be 
treated the same way as they would be if they were published in this document.  Substantive 
changes to online content not required by law must be formally coordinated in accordance with 
the procedures in DoDI 5025.01.  Substantive changes include any additional requirements that 
add to the financial, personnel, or administrative burden of any of the DoD Components. 
3B.2.  INFORMATION SELECTION. 
The policy outlined in Paragraphs 3B.2.a. and 3B.2.b. will govern the applicability and selection 
of program information: 
a.  Statutory requirements must be satisfied unless the statute allows the requirement to be 
waived. 
b.  Regulatory requirements will follow a “tailored-in” approach, as described in 
Paragraph 3.2.b. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
23 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT 
CONSIDERATIONS 
3C.1.  PURPOSE. 
This appendix describes a broad range of policies and procedures applicable to the management 
of major capability acquisition programs. 
3C.2.  PROGRAM OFFICE STRUCTURE AND ORGANIZATIONS. 
a.  Program Office Structure. 
It is a program manager’s responsibility to fully understand the skills and capacity required 
for successful program execution and for the CAE to provide those skills to ensure that programs 
execute successfully.  Program offices will be established prior to Milestone A or earlier as 
necessary.  Program offices for MDAPs will be staffed in key leadership positions with military 
or DoD civilian employees qualified in accordance with DoDI 5000.66.  Key leadership 
positions include the PM and deputy PM, and the other positions identified in DoDI 5000.66. 
b.  Joint Program Office Organization. 
(1)  A joint program office will be established when a defense acquisition program 
involves the satisfaction of validated capability requirements from multiple DoD Components or 
international partners, and is funded by more than one DoD Component or partner during any 
phase of the acquisition process   In joint programs, a lead Component will be designated to 
manage the acquisition process and act as the acquisition agent for the participating DoD 
Components.  The participating DoD Components (i.e., those with a requirement for the 
program’s products) support and participate with the lead DoD Component in managing the 
acquisition process. 
(2)  Joint programs will be managed in accordance with the provisions of a memorandum 
of agreement and with the lead DoD Component’s acquisition procedures and acquisition chain 
of command, unless directed otherwise by the DAE. 
(3)  DoD Components will neither terminate nor substantially reduce participation in joint 
MDAPs without capability requirements validation authority review and DAE approval.  The 
DAE may require a DoD Component to continue some or all funding, as necessary, to sustain the 
joint program in an efficient manner, despite approving a request to terminate or reduce 
participation.  Memorandums of agreement between DoD Components should address 
termination or reduced participation by any parties to the agreement.  Substantial reduction will 
be determined by the MDA in coordination with the requirements validation authority, and is 
defined as a funding or quantity decrease that impacts the viability of the program or 
significantly increases the costs to the other participants in the program. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
24 
3C.3.  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES. 
PMs direct the development, production, deployment, PS, sustainment, and supportability of new 
defense systems.  Management activities will be designed to achieve the cost, schedule, and 
performance parameters specified in the MDA-approved APB, and include PS considerations.  
The tools outlined in Paragraphs 3C.3.a. thorugh e. will be used to facilitate effective program 
planning and execution. 
a.  Acquisition Strategies. 
(1)  Overview. 
The PM will develop and execute an approved acquisition strategy.  This document is the 
PM’s plan for program execution across the entire program life cycle. 
(a)  The acquisition strategy is a comprehensive, integrated plan that identifies the 
acquisition approach and key framing assumptions, and describes the business, technical, PS, 
security, and supportability strategies that the PM plans to employ to manage program risks and 
meet program objectives.  The strategy evolves over time and should continuously reflect the 
current status and desired goals of the program. 
(b)  The strategy should address capability requirements for system performance 
likely to evolve during the life cycle because of evolving technology, threat, or interoperability 
needs or to reduce program cost or schedule and enable technology refresh.  The acquisition 
strategy defines the relationship between the acquisition phases and work efforts, and key 
program events such as decision points and reviews. 
(c)  The strategy must reflect the PM’s understanding of the business environment; 
technical alternatives; small business strategy; costs, risks and risk mitigation approach; 
environment, safety, and occupational health (ESOH) risk and requirements management 
approach; contract awards; the incentive structure; test activities; manufacturing and quality 
approach and risks; production lot or delivery quantities; operational deployment objectives; 
opportunities in the domestic and international markets; foreign disclosure, exportability, 
technology transfer, and security requirements; and the plan to support successful delivery of the 
capability at an affordable life-cycle price, on a realistic schedule.  Acquisition strategies are 
baseline plans for the execution of the program and should be prepared and submitted in time to 
obtain approval to support more detailed planning and the preparation of RFPs. 
(d)  The acquisition strategy is an approved plan; it is not a contract.  Minor changes 
to the plan reflected in the acquisition strategy due to changed circumstances or increased 
knowledge are to be expected and do not require MDA pre-approval.  Major changes, such as 
contract type or basic program structure, do require MDA approval prior to implementation.  All 
changes should be noted and reflected in an update at the next program decision point or 
milestone. 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
25 
(2)  PS and Supportability Planning. 
(a)  The PM, with the support of the PS manager (PSM), will include PS and 
supportability planning, tests, evaluations, and quality reviews in the acquisition strategy and the 
integrated master plan/schedule. 
(b)  The PM uses PS analyses (e.g., failure modes, effects and criticality analysis; 
level of repair, source of repair; maintenance task, provisioning) to determine logistics product 
data contract and technical data requirements, logistics support analysis, and the maintenance 
concept (organic, contractor, or a combination). 
(c)  The acquisition strategy is the basis of contract data requirement lists and should 
consider providing for planning for incremental quality reviews of vendor/original equipment 
manufacturer deliverables. 
(d)  The acquisition strategy and the PSS should include the transition plan from 
interim contractor support to organic, contractor logistics support, or a combination of both.  
Based on the results of the product support business case analysis (PS BCA), the acquisition 
strategy should clearly document sustainment and O&S cost risk management, and the cost to 
reduce risk, thereby providing cost transparency and traceability throughout the life cycle. 
(3)  Business Approach. 
(a)  The business approach detailed in the acquisition strategy should be designed to 
manage the risks associated with the product being acquired.  It should fairly allocate risk 
between industry and the government.  The approach will be based on a thorough understanding 
of the risks associated with the product being acquired (including security, FOCI, supply chain 
risks to acquisition, and industrial base concerns) and the steps that should be taken to reduce 
and manage that risk.  The business approach should be based on market analysis that considers 
market capabilities and limitations. 
(b)  The contract type and incentive structure should be tailored to the program and 
designed to motivate industry to perform in a manner that rewards achievement of the 
government’s goals.  The incentives in any contract strategy should be significant enough to 
clearly promote desired contractor behavior and outcomes that the government values, while also 
being realistically attainable.  When risk is sufficiently reduced, PMs will consider the use of 
fixed-price contracts when the use of such contracts is cost-effective. 
(4)  Competition. 
(a)  The acquisition strategy will address how program management will create and 
sustain a competitive environment, from program inception through sustainment.  Program 
management should use competition at various levels to create competitive environments that 
encourage improved performance and cost control.  Decisions made in the early phases of the 
acquisition process can either improve or reduce program management’s ability to maintain a 
competitive environment throughout the program life cycle. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
26 
(b)  Strategies to be considered include: competitive prototyping, dual sourcing, and a 
modular open systems approach that enables competition for upgrades, acquisition of complete 
technical data packages, and competition at the subsystem level.  This also includes providing 
opportunities for small business and organizations employing those with disabilities. 
(5)  MOSA. 
Pursuant to Section 2446a of Title 10, U.S.C., PMs are responsible for evaluating and 
implementing MOSA to the maximum extent feasible and cost effective.  This approach 
integrates technical requirements with contracting mechanisms and legal considerations to 
support a more rapid evolution of capabilities and technologies throughout the product life cycle 
through the use of architecture modularity, system interfaces that are compliant with widely 
supported and consensus-based standards, if they are available and suitable, and appropriate 
business practices. 
(a)  In general, the acquisition strategy for a system should identify where, why, and 
how MOSA will be used in the program. 
1.  To enable incremental development, and to enhance competition, innovation, 
and interoperability, MDAPs that receive Milestone A or B approval after January 1, 2019, must 
be designed and developed with MOSA to the maximum extent practicable. 
2.  For an MDAP that uses MOSA, the acquisition strategy must clearly describe: 
a.  How MOSA will be used, including business and technical considerations. 
b.  The differentiation between the major system platform and major system 
components being developed under the program, as well as major system components developed 
outside the program that will be integrated into the MDAP. 
c.  The evolution of capabilities that will be added, removed, or replaced in 
future increments. 
d.  The additional major system components that may be added later in the life 
cycle. 
e.  How IP and related issues, such as technical data deliverables, will be 
addressed. 
f.  The system integration and system-level configuration management 
approach to ensure the system can operate in the applicable cyber threat environment. 
(b)  The MDA for an MDAP that uses MOSA must ensure that the RFPs for the EMD 
phase and the P&D phase describe the MOSA and the minimum set of major system components 
that must be included in the system design. 
(c)  Additional information about using MOSA appears at https://www.dau.edu/aaf. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
27 
b.  Program Baseline Development and Management. 
The APB documents the program cost, schedule, and performance baselines, and is the 
fundamental binding agreement between the MDA, the CAE if applicable, the PEO, and the PM.  
The PM is responsible for developing the APB.  KPPs from the validated CDD are listed, 
verbatim, in the APB.  The APB serves as the basis for reporting to the MDA through the DoD 
management information system. 
c.  Investment Management. 
(1)  MDAP Goal Development Procedures. 
The procedures outlined in Paragraphs 3C.3.c.(1)(a) through (d) are applicable to all 
MDAPs initiated after October 1, 2017, without regard to what milestone initiates the program. 
(a)  Immediately following completion of the AoA and the final out brief to the Study 
Advisory Group, the MDA will provide the Joint Staff, the USD(A&S), the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering, and the DCAPE, a complete options matrix (Figure 3), 
and the access necessary to complete independent analysis in their area of responsibility.  The 
analysis will address the AoA results and consider the aggregated risk regarding technical 
feasibility, cost, schedule, and affordability.  The analytical results will be submitted to the MDA 
within 30 days of the AoA out brief to support a goal establishment meeting (GEM) and the 
MDA’s goal decision. 
(b)  Within 30 days of the AoA out brief, the MDA will co-chair a GEM with the 
component Vice Chief of Staff or the Vice Chief of Naval Operations (or for ACAT ID 
programs, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff).  The GEM will be supported by the 
organizations mentioned above and will discuss the analysis and the recommended cost, fielding, 
and performance goals. 
(c)  The MDA will consider the advice provided by the OSD and Joint Staff, approve 
the goals for cost, schedule, and performance, and document the decision in a program goals 
approval memorandum, similar to that portrayed in Figure 4.  The MDA must approve the goals 
before funds are obligated for technology development, systems development, or production.  
The initial goals will inform MDAP initiation. 
(d)  The MDA is responsible for monitoring the goals.  If the estimated procurement 
unit cost for the program is higher than the program cost target, or if the estimated date for IOC 
for the baseline description for the program exceeds the fielding target, the MDA will re-assess 
the program and, if justified, increase the program cost target or increase the fielding target prior 
to the next milestone or production decision in consultation with the OSD advisors identified in 
Paragraph 3C.3.c.(1)(a).  The new goals must be approved before the program can proceed 
through a milestone event. 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
28 
 
 
 
Figure 3.  Options Matrix. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
29 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  Sample Program Cost, Fielding, and Performance Goals Memorandum. 
(2)  Cost Baseline Control and Use of “Should Cost” Management. 
For MDAPs, it is DoD policy to budget to the DCAPE ICE unless an alternative estimate 
is specifically approved by the MDA.  PMs will also develop a “should cost” estimate as a 
management tool to control and reduce cost.  PMs should not allow the ICE to become a self-
fulfilling prophecy. 
(a)  “Should cost” is a management tool designed to proactively target cost reduction 
and drive productivity improvement into programs.  “Should cost” management challenges 
managers to identify and achieve savings below budgeted most-likely costs. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
30 
1.  “Should cost” analysis can be used during contract negotiations, particularly 
for sole source procurements, and throughout program execution including sustainment.  PMs 
are to proactively seek out and eliminate low-value-added or unnecessary elements of program 
cost, to motivate better cost performance wherever possible, and to reward those that succeed in 
achieving those goals.  “Should cost” estimates used in contract negotiations will be based on the 
government’s reasonable expectation of successful contractor performance, consistent with the 
contractor’s previous experience and other relevant data. 
2.  Realized “should cost” savings will be retained at the lowest organizational 
level possible and applied to priority needs. 
3.  “Should cost” applies to programs in all ACATs, in all phases of the product’s 
life cycle, and to all elements of program cost. 
(b)  Program management will develop, own, track, and report against “should cost” 
targets.  Estimates and results will be provided at milestone reviews and at specified decision 
points.  PMs will report progress against “should cost” goals via OSD- or DoD Component-
specified procedures. 
(3)  EVM. 
(a)  EVM is one of DoD’s and industry’s most powerful program planning and 
management tools.  It is normally used in conjunction with cost plus and fixed-price incentive 
contracts with discrete work scope. 
(b)  The purpose of EVM is to ensure sound planning and resourcing of all tasks 
required for contract performance.  It promotes an environment where contract execution data is 
shared between project personnel and government oversight staff and in which emerging 
problems are identified, pinpointed, and acted upon as early as possible. 
(c)  EVM provides a disciplined, structured, objective, and quantitative method to 
integrate technical work scope, cost, and schedule objectives into a single cohesive contract 
baseline plan called a performance measurement baseline for tracking contract performance.  
Tables accessible at https://www.dau.edu/mdid/Pages/Default.aspx summarize EVM 
applicability and reporting requirements. 
d.  Risk Management. 
(1)  PMs are responsible for prioritizing programmatic risks and mitigating them within 
program constraints.  Most of program management is about the process of eliminating 
programmatic risk over the life of the program.  Formal risk management is one tool to 
accomplish that objective.  Top program risks and associated risk mitigation plans will be 
detailed in the program acquisition strategy and presented at all relevant decision points and 
milestones.  The PM will consider the risk management techniques outlined in Paragraphs 
3C.3.d.(1)(a) through (l): 
(a)  Prototyping at the system, subsystem, or component level; and competitive 
prototyping, where appropriate. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
31 
(b)  Modeling and simulation, to include the need for development of any new 
modeling and simulation tools to support a comprehensive risk management and mitigation 
approach. 
(c)  Technology demonstrations and decision points to discipline the insertion of 
planned technologies into programs or the selection of alternative technologies provide 
additional discussions of technical management activities. 
(d)  Intelligence analyses, data dependencies, and threat projections. 
(e)  Multiple design approaches. 
(f)  Alternative designs, including designs that meet requirements but with reduced 
performance. 
(g)  Phasing program activities or related technology development efforts to address 
high-risk areas early. 
(h)  Manufacturability. 
(i)  Industrial base availability and capabilities (further discussed in Paragraph 3C.5.). 
(j)  Analysis or detailed identification of sub-tiers in the prime contractor supply 
chain. 
(k)  Independent risk assessments by outside subject matter experts. 
(l)  Providing schedule and funding margins for identified risks. 
(2)  The PM is responsible for integrating ESOH considerations into the decision-making 
process. 
(a)  Prior to exposing people, equipment, or the environment to known system-related 
hazards, PMs are responsible for documenting the associated risks and for ensuring that ESOH 
risks have been accepted by the following acceptance authorities: the CAE for high risks, PEO-
level for serious risks, and the PM for medium and low risks.  User-representative approval is 
required prior to high and serious risk acceptance.  For joint programs, the ESOH risk acceptance 
authorities reside within the lead DoD Component. 
(b)  The PM will manage schedule and cost risks associated with statutory 
requirements in PL 91-190 and Executive Order 12114, and other statutes and regulations as 
applicable, to assure timely production, testing and fielding events.  The PM will manage 
program risks from compliance with other ESOH requirements, such as hazardous materials 
regulations, impacting system performance and readiness, including those impacting 
international acquisition and exportability.  DoDI 5000.91 provides additional information.   
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
32 
e.  Configuration Steering Board (CSB). 
The CAE for each DoD Component will form and chair a CSB with broad executive 
membership, as identified in Section 814 of PL 110-417, as amended. 
(1)  The CSB will meet at least annually to review all requirements changes, critical 
intelligence parameter changes, and any significant technical configuration changes for ACAT I 
programs in development, production, and sustainment that have the potential to result in cost 
and schedule impacts to the program.  De-scoping options will also be considered.  CSBs will 
review potential requirements changes and propose to the requirements authority for validation 
those changes that may be necessary to achieve affordability or program goal constraints or that 
will result in a more cost effective product.  Changes that increase cost will not normally be 
approved unless funds are identified and schedule impacts are addressed. 
(2)  If the SAE determines in writing that there have been no changes to program 
requirements or adversary advancements against critical intelligence parameters in the preceding 
year, the CSB is not required to meet. 
3C.4.  INTERNATIONAL ACQUISITION AND EXPORTABILITY. 
a.  International Acquisition and Exportability Planning. 
PMs will integrate international acquisition and exportability planning into the program’s 
acquisition strategy beginning at the entry milestone and continuing through all phases of the 
acquisition process.  PMs will: 
(1)  Design the system for exportability to foreign partners, except when the program has 
an MDA-approved waiver allowing for a U.S.-only design.  PMs for MDAPs pursuing a  
U.S.-only design and not planning for system export require an MDA-approved exportability 
design waiver which must be reviewed at each milestone.  If a program has been approved for a 
waiver for a U.S.-only design, the MDA will notify the USD(A&S) and the requirements 
validation authority. 
(2)  Plan for the demand and likelihood of cooperative development or production, and 
foreign sales (e.g., direct commercial sales or foreign military sales), early in the acquisition 
process, and consider U.S. export control laws, regulations, and DoD policy for foreign transfers 
when formulating and executing the acquisition strategy in accordance with DoDI 2040.02.  In 
preparing for an international acquisition effort, PMs should consult with the appropriate 
technology security and foreign disclosure authorities (e.g., a principal disclosure authority or 
designated disclosure authority) to determine whether classified or controlled unclassified 
information can be disclosed to other governments or international organization participants.  
Failure to consider security requirements prior to obtaining foreign commitments on involvement 
can result in program delays at critical stages of the program. 
(3)  Pursue cooperative opportunities and international involvement throughout the 
acquisition life cycle to enhance international cooperation and improve interoperability in 
accordance with DoDI 2010.06. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
33 
(4)  Ensure that all efforts to design and implement exportability to foreign partners are 
consistent with Sections 2357 and 2457 of Title 10, U.S.C., and Section 1049 of PL 115-232, and 
other applicable statutory authority. 
b.  Exportability and International Acquisition Roadmap Study. 
For systems with export markets, the programs must conduct an exportability roadmap study 
beginning no later than Milestone B.  Additional guidance regarding the content of the study is 
included in the DAG. 
c.  International Cooperative Program (ICP) Management. 
(1)  An ICP is any acquisition program or technology project that includes participation 
by the United States and one or more foreign nations, through an international agreement, during 
any phase of a system’s life cycle.  All ICPs will consider applicable U.S.-ratified materiel 
international standardization agreements in accordance with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff Manual for the Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
(JCIDS), and fully comply with foreign disclosure, export control, technology transfer, program 
protection, and all applicable security requirements.  Programs containing classified information 
and/or controlled unclassified information will have a delegation of disclosure authority letter or 
other written authorization issued by the DoD Component’s cognizant foreign disclosure office 
prior to entering discussions with potential foreign partners.  When pursuing ICPs, staff members 
are encouraged to use the streamlined agreement procedures overseen and managed by the 
USD(A&S). 
(2)  DoD Components will notify and obtain DAE approval before terminating or 
substantially reducing MDAP participation in ICPs under signed international agreements.  The 
DAE may require the DoD Component to continue to provide funding for the program.  A 
substantial reduction is defined as a funding or quantity decrease that impacts program viability 
or significantly increases costs to the other program participants. 
(3)  Foreign military sales or direct commercial sales of major defense equipment prior to 
successful completion of operational test and evaluation require USD(A&S) approval (i.e., a 
Yockey Waiver). 
3C.5.  INDUSTRIAL BASE ANALYSIS AND CONSIDERATIONS. 
a.  Industrial base analysis is a continuing process with two primary components, both of 
which rely in part on information from program management.  The first gathers program specific 
industrial base information to create the appropriate acquisition strategy for a program; the 
second engages throughout the program life cycle to provide feedback and updates.  The 
objective is to ensure that the DoD can: 
(1)  Identify and support economic and stable development and production rates. 
(2)  Identify and mitigate industrial capabilities risks such as single points of failure and 
unreliable suppliers. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
APPENDIX 3C:  ADDITIONAL PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CONSIDERATIONS 
34 
(3)  Avoid, to the maximum extent practicable, lock-in to sole and single source suppliers 
at any tier. 
(4)  Support resilience of critical defense industrial base capabilities. 
(5)  Support DoD’s management of defense procurement surges and contractions. 
(6)  Avoid, to the maximum extent practicable, exposure to FOCI risks associated with 
adversary nations. 
b.  Program management is responsible for incorporating industrial base analysis, to include 
capacity and capability considerations, into acquisition planning and execution.  The industrial 
base considerations should be documented in the acquisition strategy and include identification 
of industrial capability problems (e.g., access to raw materials, export controls, FOCI concerns, 
production capabilities) that have the potential to impact the DoD near- and long-term, and 
identification of mitigation strategies that are within the scope of program management.  
Program management provided information is aggregated with other sources of information at 
CAE and DAE levels to inform Service- and DoD-level industrial base decisions. 
3C.6.  RECORDS MANAGEMENT. 
PMs must comply with the records management requirements of Chapter 31 of Title 44, U.S.C. 
and DoDI 5015.02 for the information created, collected, and retained in the form of electronic 
records.  DoDI 5000.82 provides additional guidance on records management for programs 
containing information technology. 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
GLOSSARY 
35 
GLOSSARY 
G.1.  ACRONYMS. 
ACRONYM 
 
MEANING 
 
ACAT 
acquisition category 
ADM 
acquisition decision memorandum 
AIS 
automated information systems 
AoA 
analysis of alternatives 
APB 
acquisition program baseline 
ATE 
 
automatic test equipment 
 
BCA 
 
business case analysis 
 
CAE 
component acquisition executive 
CDD 
capability development document 
CPC 
corrosion prevention and control 
CSB 
Configuration Steering Board 
CSDR 
 
cost and software data reporting 
 
DAE 
Defense Acquisition Executive 
DAG 
Defense Acquisition Guidebook 
DCAPE 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
DFARS 
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
DLA 
Defense Logistics Agency 
DMSMS 
diminishing manufacturing sources and material shortages 
DoDD 
DoD directive 
DoDI 
DoD instruction 
DOT&E 
 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
 
EMD 
engineering and manufacturing development 
ESOH 
environment, safety, and occupational health 
EVMS 
 
earned value management system 
 
FD 
full-deployment 
FOCI 
foreign ownership, control or influence 
FRP 
full-rate production 
FY 
fiscal year 
FYDP 
 
Future Years Defense Program 
 
GEM 
 
goal establishment meeting 
 
ICD 
initial capabilities document 
ICE 
independent cost estimate 
ICP 
international cooperative program 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
GLOSSARY 
36 
ACRONYM 
 
MEANING 
 
ILA 
independent logistics assessment 
IOC 
initial operational capability 
IP 
intellectual property 
ITRA 
 
independent technical risk assessment 
 
JCIDS 
 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
 
KPP 
key performance parameter 
KSA 
 
key system attribute 
 
LRIP 
 
low-rate initial production 
 
MDA 
milestone decision authority 
MDAP 
major defense acquisition program 
MDD 
materiel development decision 
MOSA 
modular open systems approach 
MSA 
 
materiel solution analysis 
 
O&S 
 
operations and support 
 
P&D 
production and deployment 
PL 
Public Law 
PEO 
program executive officer 
PM 
program manager 
PS 
product support 
PSM 
 
product support manager 
 
RAM 
reliability, availability, and maintainability 
RFP 
request for proposal 
RSSP 
 
replaced system sustainment plan 
 
SAE 
service acquisition executive 
SCRM 
supply chain risk management 
SecDef 
Secretary of Defense 
SR 
sustainment review 
TMRR 
 
technology maturation and risk reduction 
 
U.S.C. 
United States Code 
USD(A&S) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
GLOSSARY 
37 
G.2.  DEFINITIONS. 
A complete glossary of acquisition terms is maintained on the Defense Acquisition University 
website.  The Defense Acquisition University Glossary can be found at 
https://www.dau.edu/tools/t/DAU-Glossary. 
 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
REFERENCES 
38 
REFERENCES 
Aerospace Industries Association, National Aerospace Standard, 411, Hazardous Materials 
Management Program,” current version 
Aerospace Industries Association, National Aerospace Standard, 411-1, “Hazardous Materials 
Target List,” current version 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Manual for the Operation of the Joint Capabilities 
Integration and Development System1 
Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, current version 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, “Operating and Support Cost-Estimating 
Guide,” March 20142 
DoD Directive 4151.18, “Maintenance of Military Materiel,” March 31, 2004, as amended 
DoD Directive 5000.01, “The Defense Acquisition System.” May 12, 2003, as amended 
DoD Directive 5135.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
(USD(A&S)),” July 15, 2020 
DoD Instruction 2010.06, “Materiel Interoperability and Standardization with Allies and 
Coalition Partners,” July 29, 2009, as amended 
DoD Instruction 2040.02, “International Transfers of Technology, Articles, and Services,” 
March 27, 2014, as amended 
DoD Instruction 3110.05, “Readiness-Based Material Condition Reporting for Mission-Essential 
Systems and Equipment,” September 25, 2006, as amended 
DoD Instruction 4140.67, “DoD Counterfeit Prevention Policy,” April 26, 2013, as amended 
DoD Instruction 4151.20, “Depot Maintenance Core Capabilities Determination Process,” May 
4, 2018, as amended 
DoD Instruction 4151.22, “Condition Based Maintenance Plus (CBM+) for Materiel 
Maintenance,” October 16, 2012, as amended 
DoD Instruction 4160.28, “DoD Demilitarization (DEMIL) Program,” April 7, 2011, as amended 
DoD Instruction 4245.14, “DoD Value Engineering (VE) Program,” October 26, 2012, as 
amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.02, “Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework,” January 23, 
2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.66, “Defense Acquisition Workforce Education, Training, Experience, and 
Career Development Program,” July 27, 2017, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.67, “Prevention and Mitigation of Corrosion on DoD Military Equipment 
and Infrastructure,” February 1, 2010, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.73, “Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures,” March 13, 2020 
                                                 
 
 
 
1 Available at https://www.jcs.mil/; requires authorized log-in 
2 https://www.cape.osd.mil/files/OS_Guide_v9_March_2014.pdf 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
REFERENCES 
39 
DoD Instruction 5000.80, “Operation of the Middle Tier of Acquisition (MTA),” December 30, 
2019 
DoD Instruction 5000.82, “Acquisition of Information Technology,” April 21, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.91, “Product Support Management for the Adaptive Acquisition 
Framework,” November 4, 2021 
DoD Instruction 5015.02, “DoD Records Management Program,” February 24, 2015, as 
amended 
DoD Instruction 5025.01, “DoD Issuances Program,” August 1, 2016, as amended 
DoD Instruction O-5240.24, “Counterintelligence (CI) Activities Supporting Research, 
Development, and Acquisition (RDA),” June 8, 2011, as amended 
DoD Manual 4140.01, Volume 3, “DoD Supply Chain Materiel Management Procedures: 
Materiel Sourcing,” October 9, 2019 
DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 1, “Defense Materiel Disposition: Disposal Guidance and 
Procedures,” October 22, 2015, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 2, “Defense Materiel Disposition: Property Disposal and 
Reclamation,” October 22, 2015, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 3, “Defense Materiel Disposition: Reutilization, Transfer, And 
Sale of Property,” October 22, 2015, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.21, Volume 4, “Defense Materiel Disposition: Instructions for Hazardous 
Property and Other Special Processing Materiel,” October 22, 2015, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.28, Volume 1, “Defense Demilitarization:  Program Administration” August 
9, 2017, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.28, Volume 2, “Defense Demilitarization:  Demilitarization Coding,” March 
9, 2017, as amended 
DoD Manual 4160.28, Volume 3, “Defense Demilitarization:  Procedural Guidance,” June 7, 
2011, as amended 
Executive Order 12114, “Environmental Effects Abroad of Major Federal Actions,” January 4, 
1979 
Performance Based Logistics Guidebook: A Guide to Developing Performance-Based 
Arrangements, 2016, as amended3 
Public Law 91-190, “National Environmental Policy Act of 1969,” January 1, 1970, as amended 
Public Law 110-417, “The Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2009,” October 14, 2008 
Public Law 111-23, “Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009,” May 22, 2009 
Public Law 112-81, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012,” December 31, 
2011 
                                                 
 
 
 
3 https://www.dau.edu/guidebooks/Shared%20Documents%20HTML/PBL%20Guidebook.aspx 
DoDI 5000.85, August 6, 2020 
Change 1, November 4, 2021 
REFERENCES 
40 
Public Law 112-239, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013,” January 2, 
2013 
Public Law 113-66, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014,” December 26, 
2013 
Public Law 114-92, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016,” January 6, 2015 
Public Law 115-91, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018,” January 3, 2017 
Public Law 115-232, “The John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2019,” August 13, 2018 
Specification Number DI-IPSC-81427 B, “Software Development Plan (SDP),” March 13, 20174 
Specification Number DI-IPSC-81429 A, “Software Transition Plan (STrP),” January 10, 20005 
United States Code, Title 10 
United States Code, Title 40 
United States Code, Title 44 
                                                 
 
 
 
4 http://everyspec.com/DATA-ITEM-DESC-DIDs/DI-IPSC/DI-IPSC-81427B_55763/ 
5 http://everyspec.com/DATA-ITEM-DESC-DIDs/DI-IPSC/DI-IPSC-81429A_3757/ 
