 
 
DOD INSTRUCTION 5000.02 
OPERATION OF THE ADAPTIVE ACQUISITION FRAMEWORK 
 
 
Originating Component: 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
 
Effective: 
January 23, 2020 
Change 1 Effective: 
June 8, 2022 
 
Releasability: 
Cleared for public release.  Available on the Directives Division Website 
at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. 
 
Reissues and Cancels: 
See Paragraph 1.4. 
 
Approved by: 
Ellen M. Lord, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 
Change 1 Approved by: 
William A. LaPlante, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 
 
 
Purpose: In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive (DoDD) 5135.02 and the December 20, 
2019 Deputy Secretary of Defense (DepSecDef) Memorandum, this issuance: 
• Establishes policy and prescribes procedures for managing acquisition programs, pursuant to the 
relevant sections of Title 10, United States Code. 
• Assigns acquisition program management responsibilities in accordance with the authority in 
DoDDs 5135.02, 5137.02, and 5000.01. 
• Describes the responsibilities of principal acquisition officials and the purpose and key 
characteristics of the acquisition pathways. 
• Restructures defense acquisition guidance to improve process effectiveness and implement the 
Adaptive Acquisition Framework (AAF).  As a result of that restructuring, this issuance has been 
renamed “Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework,” to better reflect the current content. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
2 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION .............................................................................. 4 
1.1.  Applicability. .................................................................................................................... 4 
1.2.  Policy. ............................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3.  Purpose of the AAF. ......................................................................................................... 4 
1.4.  Transition Plan. ................................................................................................................. 4 
1.5.  Summary of Change 1. ..................................................................................................... 6 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................... 7 
2.1.  Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S)). .................. 7 
2.2.  Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (USD(R&E)). ...................... 7 
2.3.  DoD Component Heads. ................................................................................................... 8 
2.4.  Component Acquisition Executive (CAE). ....................................................................... 8 
2.5.  Executive Director, Joint Rapid Acquisition Cell. ............................................................ 8 
SECTION 3:  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES ...................................................................... 9 
3.1.  MDA/DA. ......................................................................................................................... 9 
3.2.  Program Executive Officer (PEO). ................................................................................... 9 
3.3.  PM. .................................................................................................................................... 9 
3.4.  Product Support Manager. ................................................................................................ 9 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES .............................................................................................................. 10 
4.1.  General Procedures. ........................................................................................................ 10 
4.2.  AAF Pathways. ............................................................................................................... 12 
a.  Urgent Capability Acquisition. .................................................................................... 12 
b.  MTA. ............................................................................................................................ 13 
c.  Major Capability Acquisition. ...................................................................................... 13 
d.  Software Acquisition. .................................................................................................. 14 
e.  Defense Business Systems (DBS) Acquisition. ........................................................... 15 
f.  Defense Acquisition of Services. .................................................................................. 16 
4.3.  Additional Direction. ...................................................................................................... 16 
GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................... 17 
G.1.  Acronyms. ...................................................................................................................... 17 
G.2.  Definitions. ..................................................................................................................... 17 
REFERENCES .................................................................................................................................. 18 
 
TABLES 
Table 1.  Completed Transition Plan .............................................................................................. 5 
 
FIGURES 
Figure 1.  AAF .............................................................................................................................. 10 
Figure 2.  Urgent Capability Acquisition Pathway ....................................................................... 12 
Figure 3.  MTA Pathway .............................................................................................................. 13 
Figure 4.  Major Capability Acquisition Pathway ........................................................................ 14 
Figure 5.  Software Acquisition Pathway ..................................................................................... 14 
Figure 6.  DBS Pathway................................................................................................................ 15 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
3 
Figure 7.  Acquisition of Services Pathway .................................................................................. 16 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
4 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
1.1.  APPLICABILITY. 
a.  This issuance applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the Office of Inspector 
General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field Activities, and all 
other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this issuance as the “DoD 
Components”). 
b.  The policies in this instruction are applicable to all systems and services acquired via the 
Defense Acquisition System (DAS). 
1.2.  POLICY. 
The DAS supports the National Defense Strategy through the development of a lethal and 
effective force based on U.S. technological innovation and a culture of performance that yields 
decisive and sustained U.S. military advantage.  To achieve that objective, the DoD will employ 
an AAF. 
1.3.  PURPOSE OF THE AAF. 
The AAF supports the DAS with the objective of delivering effective, suitable, survivable, 
sustainable, and affordable solutions to the end user in a timely manner.  To achieve those 
objectives, Milestone Decision Authorities (MDAs), other Decision Authorities (DAs), and 
Program Managers (PMs) have broad authority to plan and manage their programs consistent 
with sound business practice.  The AAF acquisition pathways provide opportunities for 
MDAs/DAs and PMs to develop acquisition strategies and employ acquisition processes that 
match the characteristics of the capability being acquired. 
1.4.  TRANSITION PLAN. 
This issuance lays the groundwork for operation of the AAF, which is part of the DAS described 
in DoDD 5000.01.  Change 1 to this issuance cancelled the January 7, 2015 version of DoD 
Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02; that version was renumbered DoDI 5000.02T (Transition) during 
the transition period to establish a distinction between the two issuances. 
a.  As agreed to during the 2020 coordination of this issuance, when the AAF realignment 
was completed, an administrative change to this issuance (Change 1) cancelled DoDI 5000.02T. 
b.  Table 1 details the transition plan and the location of information formerly found in the 
January 7, 2015 edition of DoDI 5000.02. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
5 
Table 1.  Completed Transition Plan 
Information in 2015 DoDI 5000.02 
New Location 
Core Acquisition Policy (Paragraph 6, 
Procedures) 
DoDI 5000.85, “Major Capability Acquisition” 
Enclosure 1.  Acquisition Program Categories 
and Compliance Requirements 
 -- Information Requirements Tables 
• DoDI 5000.85, “Major Capability Acquisition” 
• Tables authorized by DoDI 5000.85 are posted on 
the AAF website 
Enclosure 2.  Program Management 
• DoDI 5000.85, “Major Capability Acquisition” 
• DoDI 5010.44, “Intellectual Property (IP) 
Acquisition and Licensing,” October 16, 2019 has 
replaced “IP Strategy” (formerly Paragraph 6.a.(4)) 
Enclosure 3.  Systems Engineering 
DoDI 5000.88, “Engineering of Defense Systems” 
• Enclosure 4.  Developmental Test and 
Evaluation (DT&E) 
• Enclosure 5.  Operational and Live Fire Test 
and Evaluation (OT&E and LFT&E) 
DoDI 5000.89, “Test and Evaluation” 
Enclosure 6.  Life-Cycle Sustainment 
DoDI 5000.91, “Product Support Management for 
The Adaptive Acquisition Framework” 
Enclosure 7.  Human Systems Integration (HSI) 
DoDI 5000.95, “Human Systems Integration in 
Defense Acquisition” 
Enclosure 8.  Affordability Analysis and 
Investment Constraints 
Replaced by direction in Section 807 of Public Law 
114-328 
Enclosure 9.  Analysis of Alternatives (AoA) 
Necessary information is in DoDD 5105.84, 
“Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
Evaluation,” and the “Analysis of Alternatives Cost 
Estimating Handbook” 
Enclosure 10.  Cost Estimating and Reporting 
Necessary guidance is available in DoDI 5000.73, 
“Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures.” 
Enclosure 11.  Requirements Applicable to All 
Programs Containing Information Technology 
(IT) 
DoDI 5000.82, “Acquisition of Information 
Technology (IT)” 
Enclosure 12.  Urgent Capability Acquisition 
DoDI 5000.81, “Urgent Capability Acquisition” 
Enclosure 13.  Cybersecurity in the Defense 
Acquisition System 
• DoDI 5000.90, “Cybersecurity for Acquisition 
Decision Authorities and Program Managers” 
• DoDI 5000.83, “Technology and Program 
Protection to Maintain Technological Advantage” 
 
 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
6 
1.5.  SUMMARY OF CHANGE 1. 
Change 1 to this issuance is administrative and: 
a.  Cancels DoDI 5000.02T in accordance with the 2020 coordination of this issuance and 
subsequent approval of the transition plan.  AAF realignment was completed upon the approval 
and publication of DoDI 5000.95. 
b.  Updates the transition plan in Paragraph 1.4. to document its completion and final location 
of information previously in the January 7, 2015 version of DoDI 5000.02. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
7 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT 
(USD(A&S)). 
The USD(A&S): 
a.  Executes the acquisition responsibilities in the DoDD 5135.02. 
b.  In accordance with the November 16, 2018 DepSecDef memorandum, serves as an 
advisor in the preparation of major defense acquisition program (MDAP) analysis of alternatives 
study guidance. 
c.  In accordance with the December 20, 2019 DepSecDef memorandum: 
(1)  Serves as the MDA for the Materiel Development Decision, Milestone A, the 
Request for Proposal Release Decision Point for the Engineering and Manufacturing 
Development Phase, Milestone B, and Milestone C for acquisition category (ACAT) ID 
programs. 
(2)  Issues and maintains requirements for the content, and the review and approval 
process for ACAT ID acquisition strategies, and approves the acquisition strategies for ACAT ID 
programs. 
(3)  Publishes all middle tier of acquisition (MTA) policy, to include MTA rapid 
prototyping policy and MTA rapid fielding policy.  USD(A&S) written approval is required prior 
to using the MTA pathway for a program that exceeds the MDAP dollar threshold. 
2.2.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING 
(USD(R&E)). 
The USD(R&E): 
a.  Executes the research and engineering responsibilities in DoDD 5137.02. 
b.  In accordance with the November 16, 2018 DepSecDef memorandum: 
(1)  Serves as a technical advisor in the preparation of MDAP analysis of alternatives 
study guidance. 
(2)  Confirms that a materiel solution that addresses the validated need or capability gap 
for the MDAP is technically feasible and achievable. 
c.  In accordance with the December 20, 2019 DepSecDef Memorandum: 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
8 
(1)  Conducts and approves independent technical risk assessments (ITRAs) for ACAT 
ID Programs. 
(2)  Provides guidance for Military Department-conducted ITRAs for ACAT IB and IC 
programs.  The USD(R&E) will approve Military Department-conducted ITRAs (the number of 
Military Department ITRAs that USD(R&E) reviews will be at USD(R&E)’s discretion).  
Military Department ITRAs conducted on non-MDAP programs will follow USD(R&E)-
published ITRA policy. 
(3)  Maintains authority over early development prototyping policy outside of MTA. 
(4)  Approves the development testing and evaluation in the Test and Evaluation Master 
Plan. 
2.3.  DOD COMPONENT HEADS. 
The DoD Component heads are responsible for aligning the management of acquisition programs 
with the three principal DoD processes to support affordable design, development, production 
and sustainment of mission effective capability and services.  These processes are the: 
a.  Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System. 
b.  Planning, Programming, Budgeting and Execution System. 
c.  DAS. 
2.4.  COMPONENT ACQUISITION EXECUTIVE (CAE). 
Under the authority, direction, and control of the appropriate DoD Component head, a CAE: 
a.  Implements the direction in this instruction and DoDD 5000.01. 
b.  When necessary, submits waivers or requests for exception to the provisions in this 
instruction to the applicable authority.  Statutory requirements cannot be waived unless a statute 
permits. 
c.  May delegate program decision authority to the lowest appropriate level unless otherwise 
specified. 
2.5.  EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, JOINT RAPID ACQUISITION CELL. 
Under the authority, direction, and operational control of the DepSecDef, the Director, Joint 
Rapid Acquisition Cell, manages the urgent capability acquisition pathway in accordance with 
DoDD 5000.71. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 3:  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES 
9 
SECTION 3:  PROGRAM MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES 
DoD acquisition managers will exercise the following authorities within the DAS: 
3.1.  MDA/DA. 
The MDA/DA is the program decision authority and specifies the decision points and procedures 
for assigned programs.  MDAs/DAs will tailor program strategies and oversight, phase content, 
the timing and scope of decision reviews, and decision levels based on the characteristics of the 
capability being acquired (including complexity, risk, and urgency) to satisfy user requirements.  
MDAs for MDAPs and major systems will approve, as appropriate, the acquisition strategy at all 
major decision points. 
3.2.  PROGRAM EXECUTIVE OFFICER (PEO). 
The PEO balances the risk, cost, schedule, performance, interoperability, sustainability, and 
affordability of a portfolio of acquisition programs and delivers an integrated suite of mission 
effective capability to users. 
3.3.  PM. 
Under the supervision of PEOs and CAEs, PMs: 
a.  Plan acquisition programs, prepare programs for key decisions, and execute approved 
acquisition and product support strategies. 
b.  Employ a thoughtful, innovative, and disciplined approach to program management. 
3.4.  PRODUCT SUPPORT MANAGER. 
Under the supervision of PMs, product support managers develop, plan, and implement a 
comprehensive product support strategy for all integrated product support elements and their 
material readiness.  Product support managers will make use of data-driven decision making 
tools with appropriate predictive analysis capabilities to improve systems availability and reduce 
costs. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
10 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
4.1.  GENERAL PROCEDURES. 
PMs will develop an acquisition strategy for MDA approval that matches the acquisition 
pathway (see Figure 1) processes, reviews, documents, and metrics to the character and risk of 
the capability being acquired. 
Figure 1.  AAF 
 
a.  PMs, with the approval of MDAs/DAs, may leverage a combination of acquisition 
pathways to provide value not otherwise available through use of a single pathway.  The use of 
multiple pathways does not affect the application of statutory thresholds otherwise applicable to 
the program as a whole, such as the MDAP or major system (ACAT II) thresholds unless a 
statute permits.  PMs employing multiple pathways will: 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
11 
(1)  Define the transition points from one pathway to another pathway. 
(2)  Anticipate, develop, and coordinate the information requirements required at the new 
pathway entry point.  Links provided in Paragraph 4.3. identify regulatory and statutory 
information requirements for major capability acquisition, and the statutory requirements for 
other pathways. 
(3)  Ensure a smooth transition. 
b.  In addition, PMs will: 
(1)  “Tailor in” the regulatory information requirements that will be used to describe the 
management of the program.  In this context, “tailoring-in” means that the PM will identify, and 
recommend for MDA/DA approval, the regulatory information that will be employed to 
document program plans and how that information will be formatted and provided for review by 
the MDA/DA.  The PM’s recommendation will be reviewed by the MDA/DA, and the 
MDA/DA’s decision will be documented in an acquisition decision memorandum.  MDAs/DAs 
will coordinate, when necessary, with other regulatory document approval authorities to facilitate 
implementation of this approach.  Statutory requirements will not be waived unless a statute 
permits. 
(2)  Design program and business strategies to facilitate the acquisition of appropriate and 
cost effective technology solutions and achieve mission success while being mutually 
advantageous to the DoD and its industry partners.  Similarly, PMs will consider acquisition 
strategies that leverage international acquisition and supportability planning to improve 
economies of scale, strengthen the defense industrial base, and enhance coalition partner 
capabilities to prepare for joint operations. 
(3)  Recognize that cybersecurity is a critical aspect of program planning.  It must be 
addressed early and continuously during the program life cycle to ensure cybersecurity 
operational and technical risks are identified and reduced and that fielded systems are capable, 
effective, and resilient. 
(4)  Consider the procurement of data deliverables and associated license rights needed to 
support competitive acquisition and life-cycle sustainment strategies. 
(5)  Prioritize product support and affordability during early program planning to ensure 
sustained mission effectiveness. 
(6)  Establish a risk management program to ensure program cost, schedule, and 
performance objectives are achieved, and to communicate the process for managing program 
uncertainty.  In consultation with the user representative, the PM will determine which 
environment, safety, and occupational health risks must be eliminated or mitigated, and which 
risks can be accepted. 
(7)  When consistent with pathway requirements, develop engineering plans and 
processes applicable to the pathways to mature technology, conduct necessary systems 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
12 
engineering tradeoffs, and produce and manage appropriate technical baselines through the use 
of systems engineering technical reviews. 
4.2.  AAF PATHWAYS. 
The following pathways describe multiple acquisition approaches that provide capability to the 
user while capitalizing on advanced acquisition methods and improving the DoD’s ability to 
benefit from commercial innovation.  There are six pathways: 
a.  Urgent Capability Acquisition. 
(1)  Purpose. 
To field capabilities to fulfill urgent existing or emerging operational needs or quick 
reactions in less than 2 years. 
(2)  Characteristics. 
The DoD’s highest priority is to provide warfighters with the capabilities urgently needed 
to overcome unforeseen threats, achieve mission success, and reduce risk of casualties.  Urgent 
operational needs and other quick reaction capabilities are identified and approved for resolution 
by designated authorities.  The estimated cost of any single solution must not exceed $525 
million in research, development, and test and evaluation; or $3.065 billion procurement in 
Fiscal Year 2020 constant dollars.  The acquisition; product support and sustainment processes; 
reviews; and documents are aggressively streamlined due to operational urgency.  The goal is to 
plan for the capability in a few weeks, with development and production measured in months.  
The imperative is to quickly deliver useful capability to the warfighter in a timely fashion.  
Figure 2 illustrates the urgent capability acquisition pathway. 
(3)  References. 
DoDD 5000.71 and DoDI 5000.81 establish policies and provide procedures for urgent 
operational needs and other quick reaction capabilities acquisition. 
Figure 2.  Urgent Capability Acquisition Pathway 
 
 
 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
13 
b.  MTA. 
(1)  Purpose. 
To rapidly develop fieldable prototypes within an acquisition program to demonstrate 
new capabilities or rapidly field production quantities of systems with proven technologies that 
require minimal development. 
(2)  Characteristics. 
The MTA pathway includes rapid prototyping and rapid fielding activities.  The objective 
of rapid prototyping is to field a prototype meeting defined requirements that can be 
demonstrated in an operational environment and provide for residual operational capability 
within 5 years of the MTA program start date.  The objective of rapid fielding is to begin 
production within 6 months and complete fielding within 5 years of the MTA program start date.  
These activities will not be subject to the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System 
or the procedures outlined in DoDD 5000.01, except to the extent specifically provided in the 
guidance.  PMs will “tailor-in” reviews, assessments, and relevant documentation that results in 
an acquisition strategy customized to the unique characteristics and risks of their program.  PMs 
will ensure operational, technical, and security risks are identified and reduced so that fielded 
systems are capable, effective, and resilient.  PMs will comply with statutory requirements unless 
waived in accordance with a relevant provision. 
(3)  References. 
DoDI 5000.80 establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for 
the MTA pathway, illustrated in Figure 3. 
Figure 3.  MTA Pathway 
 
c.  Major Capability Acquisition. 
(1)  Purpose. 
To acquire and modernize military unique programs that provide enduring capability. 
(2)  Characteristics. 
These acquisitions typically follow a structured analyze, design, develop, integrate, test, 
evaluate, produce, and support approach.  This process is designed to support MDAPs, major 
systems, and other complex acquisitions.  Acquisition and product support processes, reviews, 
and documentation will be tailored based on the program size, complexity, risk, urgency, and 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
14 
other factors.  Software-intensive components may be acquired via the software acquisition 
pathway, with the outputs and dependencies integrated with the overall major capability 
pathway.
(3) References.
DoDI 5000.85 establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for 
the major capability acquisition pathway, illustrated in Figure 4. 
Figure 4.  Major Capability Acquisition Pathway 
d. Software Acquisition.
(1) Purpose.
To facilitate rapid and iterative delivery of software capability (e.g., software-intensive 
systems or software-intensive components or sub-systems) to the user. 
(2) Characteristics.
This pathway integrates modern software development practice such as Agile Software 
Development, Development, Security, and Operations, and Lean Practices.  Small cross-
functional teams that include operational users, developmental and operational testers, software 
developers, and cybersecurity experts leverage enterprise services to deliver software rapidly and 
iteratively to meet the highest priority user needs.  These mission-focused, government-industry 
teams leverage automated tools for iterative development, builds, integration, testing, production, 
certification, and deployment of capabilities to the operational environment. 
(3) References.
DoDI 5000.87 establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for 
the software acquisition pathway, illustrated in Figure 5. 
Figure 5.  Software Acquisition Pathway 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
15 
e.  Defense Business Systems (DBS) Acquisition. 
(1)  Purpose. 
To acquire information systems that support DoD business operations.  This pathway: 
(a)  Applies to defense business capabilities and their supporting business systems, 
including those with “as-a-service” solutions to include: 
1.  Financial and financial data feeder. 
2.  Contracting. 
3.  Logistics. 
4.  Planning and budgeting. 
5.  Installations management. 
6.  Human resources management. 
7.  Training and readiness systems. 
(b)  May also be used to acquire non-developmental, software intensive programs that 
are not business systems. 
(2)  Characteristics. 
This pathway assesses the business environment and identifies existing commercial or 
government solutions that could be adopted to satisfy DoD needs. The DoD reviews its business 
processes and revises them to align more closely with commercial or government information 
technology best practices.  Customization of a selected information technology solution is 
minimal.  The DoD reduces risk and maximizes benefits by using commercial-off-the-shelf 
software that has been successfully demonstrated in the commercial marketplace. 
(3)  Reference. 
DoDI 5000.75 establishes policies and provides procedures for the DBS acquisition 
pathway, illustrated in Figure 6. 
Figure 6.  DBS Pathway 
 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 
16 
f.  Defense Acquisition of Services. 
(1)  Purpose. 
To acquire services from the private sector including knowledge-based, construction, 
electronics and communications, equipment, facilities, product support, logistics, medical, 
research and development, and transportation services. 
(2)  Characteristics. 
This pathway is intended to identify the required services, research the potential 
contractors, contract for the services, and manage performance.  The seven steps of the pathway 
are grouped into three phases: Plan, Develop, and Execute. 
(3)  Reference. 
DoDI 5000.74 and the online Service Acquisition Mall establish policies and provide 
procedures for the defense acquisition of services pathway, illustrated in Figure 7. 
Figure 7.  Acquisition of Services Pathway 
 
4.3.  ADDITIONAL DIRECTION. 
a.  Additional details on each pathway of the AAF can be found at https://aaf.dau.edu/. 
b.  A table identifying references that provide additional policy direction, applicable to the 
pathways described in this issuance, is available at 
https://www.dau.edu/aafdid/Pages/About.aspx. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
GLOSSARY 
17 
GLOSSARY 
G.1.  ACRONYMS. 
ACRONYM 
MEANING 
 
AAF 
adaptive acquisition framework 
ACAT 
acquisition category 
 
CAE 
Component acquisition executive 
 
DA 
decision authority 
DAS 
Defense Acquisition System 
DBS 
defense business systems 
DepSecDef 
Deputy Secretary of Defense 
DoDD 
DoD directive 
DoDI 
DoD instruction 
 
ITRA 
independent technical risk assessment 
 
MDA 
milestone decision authority 
MDAP 
major defense acquisition program 
MTA 
middle tier of acquisition 
 
PEO 
program executive officer 
PM 
program manager 
 
USD(A&S) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
USD(R&E) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
G.2.  DEFINITIONS. 
A complete Glossary of acquisition terms is maintained on the Defense Acquisition University 
website.  The Defense Acquisition University Glossary can be found at 
https://www.dau.edu/tools/t/DAU-Glossary. 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
REFERENCES 
18 
REFERENCES 
Adaptive Acquisition Framework Documentation Identification (AAFDID) Tool1 
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, “Analysis of Alternatives Cost Estimating 
Handbook,” current edition2 
Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Procedures for the Establishment of Program Cost, 
Fielding, and Performance Goals for Major Defense Acquisition Programs,” November 16, 
2018 
Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Acquisition Roles and Responsibilities,” 
December 20, 2019 
DoD Directive 5000.01, “The Defense Acquisition System,” September 9, 2020 
DoD Directive 5000.71, “Rapid Fulfillment of Combatant Commander Urgent Operational 
Needs,” August 24, 2012, as amended 
DoD Directive 5105.84, “Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation,” August 14, 
2020 
DoD Directive 5135.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
(USD(A&S)),” July 15, 2020 
DoD Directive 5137.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
(USD(R&E)),” July 15, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.73, “Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures,” March 13, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.74, “Defense Acquisition of Services,” January 10, 2020, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.75, “Business Systems Requirements and Acquisition,” February 2, 2017, 
as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.80, “Operation of the Middle Tier of Acquisition (MTA),” 
December 30, 2019 
DoD Instruction 5000.81, “Urgent Capability Acquisition,” December 31, 2019 
DoD Instruction 5000.82, “Acquisition of Information Technology (IT),” April 21, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.83, “Technology and Program Protection to Maintain Technological 
Advantage,” July 20, 2020, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.85, “Major Capability Acquisition,” August 6, 2020, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.87, “Operation of the Software Acquisition Pathway”, October 2, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.88, “Engineering of Defense Systems,” November 18, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.89, “Test and Evaluation,” November 19, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.90, “Cybersecurity for Acquisition Decision Authorities and Program 
Managers,” December 31, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.91, “Product Support Management for the Adaptive Acquisition 
Framework,” November 4, 2021 
                                                 
 
1 Available at https://www.dau.edu/aafdid/Pages/About.aspx 
2 Available at https://www.cape.osd.mil/#CAPEPublicReports 
DoDI 5000.02, January 23, 2020 
Change 1, June 8, 2022 
 
REFERENCES 
19 
DoD Instruction 5000.95, “Human Systems Integration in Defense Acquisition,” April 1, 2022 
DoD Instruction 5010.44, “Intellectual Property (IP) Acquisition and Licensing,” 
October 16, 2019 
Public Law 114-328, Section 807, “National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017,” 
December 23, 2016 
The On-line Service Acquisition Mall3 
United States Code, Title 10 
                                                 
 
3 Available at https://www.dau.edu/tools/Documents/SAM/home.html 
