 

 

DOD INSTRUCTION 5000.81 

URGENT CAPABILITY ACQUISITION 

 
 
Originating Component: 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 

 
Effective: 
December 31, 2019 

 
Releasability: 
Cleared for public release.  Available on the Directives Division Website 
at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. 

 
Incorporates and Cancels: Enclosure 13 of DoD Instruction 5000.02, “Urgent Capability 
Acquisition,” January 7, 2015, as amended 

 
Approved by: 
Ellen M. Lord, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 

 
 
Purpose: In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive (DoDD) 5134.01 and the July 13, 2018 
Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, this issuance establishes policy, assigns responsibilities, 
and provides procedures for acquisition programs that provide capabilities to fulfill urgent operational 
needs and other quick reaction capabilities that can be fielded in less than 2 years.  
 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 
2 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS ....................................................................................................................... 2 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION .............................................................................. 3 

1.1.  Applicability. .................................................................................................................... 3 
1.2.  Policy. ............................................................................................................................... 3 
1.3.  Information Collections. ................................................................................................... 3 
1.4.  Defense Acquisition System Realignment Plan. .............................................................. 3 

SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................... 5 

2.1.  Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S))................... 5 
2.2.  Executive Director, Joint Rapid Acquisition Cell (JRAC). .............................................. 5 
2.3.  USD(C)/CFO. ................................................................................................................... 5 
2.4.  Director, Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E). ..................................................... 5 
2.5.  Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence. ................................................................... 6 
2.6.  Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (USD(R&E)). ...................... 6 
2.7.  DoD Component Heads. ................................................................................................... 6 

SECTION 3:  AUTHORITIES, UONS, AND OTHER QUICK REACTION CAPABILITIES ........................... 8 

3.1.  Authorities......................................................................................................................... 8 
3.2.  Types of UONs. ................................................................................................................ 8 
3.3.  Other. ................................................................................................................................ 8 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES .............................................................................................................. 10 

4.1.  General. ........................................................................................................................... 10 
4.2.  Pre-Development. ........................................................................................................... 10 
4.3.  Development. .................................................................................................................. 14 
4.4.  P&D. ............................................................................................................................... 15 
4.5.  O&S. ............................................................................................................................... 16 

GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................... 19 

G.1.  Acronyms. ...................................................................................................................... 19 
G.2.  Definitions. ..................................................................................................................... 19 

REFERENCES .................................................................................................................................. 21 
 
TABLES 

Table 1.  Information Requirements Unique to Urgent Capability Acquisition Process .............. 13 
 
FIGURES 

Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework .................................................................................. 4 
Figure 2.  Flow of JUONs and JEONs ............................................................................................ 9 
Figure 3.  Urgent Capability Acquisitions .................................................................................... 11 
 
 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION  
3 

SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 

1.1.  APPLICABILITY.  This issuance applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (CJCS) and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, 
the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the 
DoD Field Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to 
collectively in this issuance as the “DoD Components”). 

1.2.  POLICY.   

a.  It is DoD’s highest priority to provide warfighters involved in conflict or preparing for 
imminent contingency operations with the capabilities needed to overcome unforeseen threats, 
achieve mission success, and reduce risk of casualties, as described in DoDD 5000.71.  

b.  The estimated cost for acquisition programs that provide capabilities to fulfill urgent 
operational needs and other quick reaction capabilities that can be fielded in less than 2 years 
must not exceed $525 million in research, development, and test and evaluation, or $3.065 
billion for procurements in Fiscal Year 2020 constant dollars. 

1.3.  INFORMATION COLLECTIONS.  The urgent capability acquisition process 
information requirements, referred to in Section 4, do not require licensing with a report control 
symbol in accordance with Paragraph 1.a.(10) in Enclosure 3 of Volume 1 of DoD Manual 
8910.01.  

1.4.  DEFENSE ACQUISITION SYSTEM REALIGNMENT PLAN.  The overarching 
management principles that guide the defense acquisition system are described in DoDD 5000.01 
and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02.  The defense acquisition system supports the National 
Defense Strategy through the development of a lethal and effective force based on U.S. 
technological innovation and a culture of performance that yields decisive and sustained U.S. 
military advantage.  To achieve that objective, the DoD will employ an adaptive acquisition 
framework comprised of acquisition pathways, each tailored for the unique characteristics of the 
capability being acquired.  This issuance describes the responsibilities of principal acquisition 
officials and the purpose and key characteristics of the Urgent Capability Acquisition process 
pathway.


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION  
4 

Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework 

 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES  
5 

SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 

2.1.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ACQUISITION AND SUSTAINMENT 
(USD(A&S)).  The USD(A&S):  

a.  Is the Defense Acquisition Executive (DAE), and develops processes and procedures to 
enable urgent capability acquisitions and communicates updates to procedures to the acquisition 
workforce, as appropriate. 

b.  Determines when a program is not appropriate for the Urgent Capability Acquisition 
pathway.  The USD(A&S) may disapprove use of the Urgent Capability Acquisition pathway 
and direct that any program be executed using another acquisition pathway. 

2.2.  EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, JOINT RAPID ACQUISITION CELL (JRAC).  Under the 
authority, direction, and control of the Deputy Secretary of Defense (DepSecDef), the Executive 
Director, JRAC:  

a.  Assigns responsibilities to the DoD Component heads for rapid resolution of joint urgent 
operational needs (JUONs), joint emergent operational needs (JEONs), and Warfighter Senior 
Integration Group (SIG)-identified urgent issues in accordance with DoDD 5000.71. 

b.  Notifies the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer, 
Department of Defense (USD(C)/CFO) of urgent need requirements, assigned solution sponsors, 
and resources needed to facilitate the timely resolution of urgent warfighter needs.  Assists in the 
resolution of funding issues, as required.   

c.  Maintains visibility of DoD Component efforts to satisfy urgent warfighter actions based 
on updates from solution sponsors and informs the Warfighter SIG of the status of funding, 
contracting, delivery, operational performance, training, fielding, sustainment, or other issues 
affecting timely fulfilment. 

2.3.  USD(C)/CFO.  The USD(C)/CFO assesses DoD Component funding strategies to support 
urgent operational needs (UONs) and other quick reaction capabilities (see Section 3) and 
recommends current execution year offsets, as necessary. 

2.4.  DIRECTOR, OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION (DOT&E).  The DOT&E:  

a.  Monitors all urgent capability acquisition programs.  

b.  Designates select programs for DOT&E operational and live fire oversight. 

c.  For programs under DOT&E oversight, approves operational and live fire test plans.  


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES  
6 

d.  For programs under DOT&E oversight, approves post-deployment assessment plans at the 
Production and Deployment Milestones. 

e.  As applicable, submits independent operational test and live fire reports to the Secretary 
of Defense, the USD(A&S), the Congressional Defense Committees, and Service components. 

2.5.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE.  The Under Secretary of 
Defense for Intelligence: 

a.  Advises the USD(A&S) on security, intelligence, and counterintelligence requirements 
associated with DAE program technologies, developmental testing, and technical risks. 

b.  Advises the Components on security, counterintelligence, and intelligence matters 
associated with their Urgent Capability Acquisition programs, and works with them to assess 
threats and address vulnerabilities. 

2.6.  UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING 
(USD(R&E)).  The USD(R&E) assists and advises the Executive Director, JRAC and solution 
sponsors by: 

a.  Reviewing CJCS validated JUON/JEON requirements and providing recommendations 
for their resolution. 

b.  Requesting data to provide technical advice and assistance to decision makers consistent 
with the level of Office of the USD(R&E) engagement.      

2.7.  DOD COMPONENT HEADS.  The DoD Component heads: 

a.  Tailor and streamline program strategies and oversight of urgent capability acquisitions, 
as appropriate.   

(1)  This includes program information, acquisition activity, and the timing and scope of 
decision reviews and decision levels.   

(2)  Tailoring and streamlining should be based on program complexity and the required 
timelines to meet urgent capability requirements consistent with applicable laws and regulations. 

b.  Assess the merits of partial or interim solutions that can be fielded more rapidly, if the 
desired capability cannot be delivered within 2 years. 

(1)  In those cases, the actions necessary to develop the desired solution may be initiated 
concurrent with the fielding of the interim solution. 

(2)  Urgent warfighter issues (see Glossary) identified by the Warfighter SIG, in 
accordance with DoDD 5000.71, will be addressed as determined by the co-chairs of the 
Warfighter SIG. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES  
7 

c.  Ensure that acquisition decision making and associated activities are tailored to expedite 
acquisition, fielding and sustainment of the capability.  Production can be authorized in those 
cases when there is limited development and a production decision is needed to maintain 
schedule. 

d.  Use all available authorities to quickly fund, develop, test, procure, field and sustain 
capability solutions.   

e.  Identify and recommend potential offsets to fund urgent capability acquisition activities 
for a current execution year and subsequent years, as required, and participate in funding 
discussions between the Executive Director, JRAC and the USD(C)/CFO. 

f.  Employ, to the extent possible, parallel rather than sequential processes to identify and 
refine capability requirements, identify resources, and execute acquisitions to expedite delivery 
of solutions.     

g.  Ensure that financial, contracting, and other support organizations (e.g., Defense Contract 
Audit Agency, Defense Contract Management Agency, Component General Counsel) and prime 
and subcontractors involved with aspects of the acquisition effort are fully aware of the urgency 
of the need to ensure expedited action. 

 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 3:  AUTHORITIES, UONS, AND OTHER QUICK REACTION CAPABILITIES 
8 

SECTION 3:  AUTHORITIES, UONS, AND OTHER QUICK REACTION 
CAPABILITIES 

3.1.  AUTHORITIES.  Approval authorities for each acquisition program covered by this 
issuance may be delegated to a level that promotes expeditious fielding of capabilities.   

3.2.  TYPES OF UONs. 

a.  JUONs and JEONs. 

(1)  These types of UONs are defined in CJCS Instruction 5123.01H.  

(2)  For JUONs and JEONs, the validation approval will be by the Joint Staff in 
accordance with the Joint Capability Integration Development System detailed in CJCS 
Instruction 5123.01H.   

(3)  Program execution for JUONs and JEONs will be assigned in accordance with 
DoDD 5000.71.   

(4)  The milestone decision authority (MDA) for JUONs and JEONs will be determined 
at the DoD Component level except in very rare cases when the MDA will be designated in an 
acquisition decision memorandum (ADM) by the DAE.  The flow of JUONs and JEONs is 
depicted in Figure 2.  

b.  DoD Component-Specific UON.  These types of UONs are defined in CJCS Instruction 
5123.01H and further discussed in DoDD 5000.71.  Approval authorities for DoD Component-
specific UONs, including their validation, program execution, and the designation of the MDA, 
will be at the DoD Component level. 

3.3.  OTHER.  

a.  A Warfighter SIG-Identified Urgent Issues.  The co-chairs of the Warfighter SIG will 
approve an urgent warfighter issue statements and provide instructions to the DoD Components 
on program execution and management. 

b.  A Secretary of Defense (SecDef) or DepSecDef Rapid Acquisition Authority (RAA) 
Determination. 

(1)  RAA should be considered when, within certain limitations, a waiver of a law, 
policy, directive, or regulation will greatly accelerate the delivery of effective capability to the 
warfighter pursuant to Section 806(c) of Public Law (PL) 107-314.   

(2) RAA authorizes DoD to use funds for certain higher priority requirements without 
undertaking a reprogramming action or with use of a transfer authority.  DoD Manual 5000.78 
provides instructions on submitting RAA requests. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 3:  AUTHORITIES, UONS, AND OTHER QUICK REACTION CAPABILITIES 
9 

 
 
 
 

 

Figure 2.  Flow of JUONs and JEONs


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
10 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES 

4.1.  GENERAL.  This section describes the main activities associated with urgent capability 
acquisitions – pre-development, development, production and deployment (P&D), and 
operations and support (O&S).   

a.  The activities detailed in this issuance are not separate from or in addition to activities 
performed as part of the acquisition system, but are highly-tailored versions of those activities 
intended to expedite the fielding of capability by streamlining the documentation and reviews 
normally required as part of the deliberate acquisition process.   

b.  Figure 3 depicts representative urgent capability acquisition activities to support fielding 
of a quick reaction capability. 

Figure 3. Urgent Capability Acquisitions 

4.2.  PRE-DEVELOPMENT.  

 

a.  Purpose.  The purpose of pre-development is to assess and select a course or courses of 
action to field a quick reaction capability and develop an acquisition approach. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
11 

b.  Initiation.  Pre-development begins upon receipt of either a validated UON, approval of a 
critical warfighter issue statement by the co-chairs of the Warfighter SIG per DoDD 5000.71, or 
a SecDef or DepSecDef RAA determination document, where the associated documentation 
serves as justification to continue the action until such time as the disposition action discussed in 
Paragraph 4.5.e. 

c.  Pre-Development Activities. 

(1)  Upon pre-development initiation, the Component Acquisition Executive (CAE) will 
immediately appoint a Program Manager (PM) and an MDA for JUONs and JEONs assigned to 
the Component by the Executive Director, JRAC.  If the DAE has retained MDA authority, he or 
she will either appoint a PM or task a CAE to do so.  Approval authorities for DoD Component-
specific UONs, to include designation of the PM and MDA, will be at the DoD Component 
level. 

(2)  The PM, in collaboration with the intended user community and the requirements 
validation authority: 

(a)  Assesses the required capability and any recommended non-materiel options and, 
if not adequately stated, determines the performance thresholds so that they can be testable for 
assessment of the minimal set of performance parameters required to adequately reduce the 
capability gap. 

(b)  Performs an analysis of potential courses of action, if not already performed, that 
considers: 

1.  The range of feasible capabilities, near, mid, and long term, to include 

consideration of an existing domestic or foreign-made capability. 

2.  The acquisition risk (cost, schedule, and performance) and the operational risk 

of each solution. 

3.  The operational risk to the requesting commander if an effective solution is not 

deployed in the time specified by the commander. 

(c)  Assesses and documents the safety and supportability risks of the potential course 
of action. 

(d)  Presents a recommended course of action for review and approval by the MDA. 

(e)   Notifies the MDA if he or she is unable to identify an effective solution that 
could be executed under the Urgent Capability Acquisition pathway. The MDA will in turn 
notify the requirements validation authority.  If it is a JUON or JEON, a critical warfighter issue 
identified by the Warfighter SIG, or a SecDef or DepSecDef RAA determination, the MDA will 
notify the DAE and the requirements validation authority through the Executive Director, JRAC 
and the Deputy Director for Requirements and Capability Development in the Joint Staff Force 
Structure, Resources, and Assessment Directorate (J-8). 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
12 

(3)  The PM will present the recommended course(s) of action to the MDA and the 
requirements validation authority.  The selected course of action will be documented in an ADM.  
More than one course of action may be selected to provide the phased or incremental fielding of 
capabilities. 

(4)  For each approved course of action, the PM will develop a draft acquisition strategy 
and an abbreviated program baseline based on readily available information.  In the context of 
this issuance, the documentation requirement is for the minimal amount necessary to define and 
execute the program and obtain MDA approval. 

(a)  This documentation may take any appropriate, written form; will typically be 
coordinated only with directly affected stakeholders; and will evolve in parallel with urgent 
capability acquisition activities as additional information becomes available as a result of those 
activities. 

(b)  The acquisition strategy will comply with the information requirements 
applicable to ACAT II and ACAT III programs available online at 
https://www.dau.edu/mdid/Pages/Default.aspx:  

1.  Table 2. “Milestone and Phase Information Requirements.”  

2.  Table 6. “Exceptions, Waivers, and Alternative Management and Reporting 

Requirements.”  

3.  Table 10. “Information Requirements Unique to the Urgent Capability 

Acquisition Process” (also shown in Table 1 of this issuance).  

(c)  A streamlined, highly-tailored strategy consistent with the urgency of the need 
will be employed.  Regulatory requirements will be tailored or waived, as appropriate. 

(d)  The tailored acquisition strategy should be brief and contain only essential 
information, such as resourcing needs and sources; key deliverables; performance parameters; 
key risks and mitigation approaches; a production schedule; a fielding schedule; contracting 
methodology and key terms; and preliminary plans for performance assessment of the capability 
and its supportability, to include software. 

(e)  When designing the acquisition strategy, the PM, in collaboration with the 
requesting operational commander or sponsoring user community representative will determine 
whether an operational prototype is necessary to reduce operational risk and, if so, include this 
determination and a notional assessment approach in the acquisition strategy. 

 
 
 
 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
13 

Table 1.  Information Requirements Unique to Urgent Capability Acquisition Process 

INFORMATION REQUIREMENT 

URGENT CAPABILITY 

ACQUISITION 

DECISION EVENTS 
SOURCE 

Development
Production

STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS

ASSESSMENT APPROACH 
● 
● 

Section 2366 of Title 10, U.S.C. (see DoDI 5000.02)

Section 2399 of Title 10 U.S.C.  (see DoDI 5000.02) 

STATUTORY; only required for programs responding to urgent capability acquisitions. 

- For programs under DOT&E oversight, operational and live fire test plans will be submitted to DOT&E for approval at the 
Development Milestone; post-deployment assessment plans will be submitted to DOT&E for approval at the Production and 
Deployment Milestone.  DOT&E will ensure that testing is rigorous enough to rapidly evaluate critical operational issues.  Test Plans 
submitted for DOT&E approval are required to be delivered 60 days before the start of testing. 
- Programs not under DOT&E oversight are approved at the Service level; the program may require a rapid and focused operational 
assessment and live fire testing (if applicable) prior to deploying an urgent need solution.  The Acquisition Approach will identify any 
requirements to evaluate health, safety, operational effectiveness, suitability, environmental factors, supportability and survivability. 

COURSE OF ACTION ANALYSIS 
● 
 
Meets the assessment requirements of Subtitle III of 
Title 40, U.S.C. 

STATUTORY; replaces and serves as the Analysis of Alternatives.  Approved by the MDA.  For JUONs, JEONs, critical warfighter issues 
identified by the Warfighter SIG, and SecDef or DepSecDef RAA determinations, a copy is due to the Executive Director, JRAC, within 3 
business days of MDA approval. 

RAA RECOMMENDATION 

STATUTORY.  Optional request to the SecDef or DepSecDef for RAA.  Considered as part of the development of the Acquisition Strategy.  
MDA approves the decision to request RAA at the Development Milestone. 

REGULATORY REQUIREMENT

 

Disposition Authority’s Report to 
the DoD Component Head 
 
 
Para. 4.5.e. of this issuance 

Regulatory.  Based on the disposition official’s recommendation in the Disposition Analysis, the Component Head will determine and 
document the disposition of the initiative and process it in accordance with applicable Component and requirements authority procedures 

Table Notes:

1.  A dot (●) in a cell indicates the specific applicability of the requirement to the life-cycle event 

2.  Documentation required for the identified events will be submitted no later than 45 calendar days before the planned review. 

3.  While these requirements are specific to programs responding to urgent operational needs, they are additive to the requirements 
identified in Tables 2 and 6 DoDI 5000.02. (See https://www.dau.edu/mdid/Pages/Default.aspx ) 

 

(5)  Information technology, including National Security Systems, provided in response 
to an urgent operational need requires an authorization to operate in accordance with DoDI 
8510.01.   


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
14 

(6)  A disposition decision should be made as early as feasible and decided upon at 
appropriate milestones or other decision points. 

(7)  Funding for the acquisition program may be in increments over the program life 
cycle.  The program life cycle begins upon pre-development initiation and ends upon completing 
the final disposition of the capability as described in Paragraph 4.5.e. 

(8)  Generally, funds will have to be reprioritized and reprogrammed to expedite the 
acquisition process.  If a capability can be fielded within an acceptable timeline through the 
normal Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution system, it would not be considered 
appropriate to utilize urgent capability acquisition procedures. 

4.3.  DEVELOPMENT. 

a.  Entry.  

(1)  Entry into development is approved by the MDA.  The PM will provide the 
acquisition strategy and program baseline to include the program requirements, schedule, 
activities, program funding, assessment approach, and intermediate decision points and criteria 
as the basis for this decision. 

(2)  The MDA will: 

(a)  Determine the feasibility of fielding the capability within the required timelines to 
include consideration of the technical maturity of the preferred solution(s). If the MDA 
determines that the fielding of the capability cannot be accomplished in the required timelines, 
then the MDA may direct partial or interim solutions that can be fielded more rapidly, or may 
direct that the program will be managed under a different authority.  

(b)  Review the acquisition strategy and program baseline and determine whether the 
preferred solution: 

1.  Can be fielded within 2 years. 

2.  Does not require substantial development effort. 

3.  Is based on technologies that are proven and available. 

4.  Can be acquired under a fixed price contract. 

5.  Provides any exceptions necessary including exceptions to the 

requirements of Paragraph (2)(b)1 through Paragraph (2)(b)4.  

(c)  Approve initial quantities to be produced and assessed, to include required 
assessment and training articles. 

(d)  Approve the tailored acquisition strategy and acquisition program baseline.  
These documents will be based on available information and updated as directed by the MDA. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
15 

(e)  Decide if RAA, in accordance with Section 806(c) of PL 107-314, should be 
requested from the SecDef or DepSecDef to expedite the fielding of the capability. 

(f)  Approve the planned testing approach.  A normal test and evaluation master plan 
(TEMP) is generally not necessary.   

1.  TEMPs are usually not appropriate for efforts using urgent capability 

acquisition procedures when there is minimal development work and minimal test and evaluation 
to execute.  Some test planning is usually required, however, in collaboration with the supporting 
developmental or operational test organization.  The MDA may require a highly-tailored and 
abbreviated test plan.  The abbreviated test plan will describe a performance assessment 
approach that will include schedule, test types and environment, and assets required.   

2.  A TEMP is also not normally required if the urgent capability acquisition 

effort is under DOT&E oversight.  The PM, in collaboration with the supporting operational test 
organization, should prepare operational and live fire test plans for DOT&E approval, however.  
An operational test plan for the required pre-deployment performance assessment is generally 
adequate.    

(g)  Approve any appropriate waivers to statute or regulation.  Specify any additional 
authority the PM may use to modify the acquisition approach without the specific approval of the 
MDA. 

(h)  Authorize release of the request for proposal and related documents for 
development and any other MDA-approved actions. 

(i)  Document these decisions in an ADM. 

b.  Development Activities. 

(1)  Development includes an assessment of the performance, safety, suitability, 
survivability, supportability, including software, and lethality, if appropriate.  It does not require 
that all identified deficiencies including those related to safety be resolved prior to production or 
deployment.  The MDA will, in consultation with the user community and the requirements 
validation authority, determine which deficiencies must be resolved and what risks can be 
accepted.  The accepted risks will allow the user community to develop tactics, techniques, and 
procedures to help minimize the operational risks.   

(2)  IT, including National Security Systems, fielded under this issuance require an 
authorization to operate in accordance with DoDI 8510.01.  DoD Component chief information 
officers will establish processes consistent with DoDI 8510.01 for designated approval 
authorities to expeditiously make the certification determinations and to issue interim 
authorization to test or authorization to operate. 

4.4.  P&D. 

a.  Entry into P&D is approved by the MDA. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
16 

b.  At the P&D milestone review: 

(1)  The PM will summarize the results of development activities, pre-deployment 
performance, and the program assessment to date.  The PM will present plans to transport, 
deploy, and sustain the capability; to conduct post-deployment assessments; and to train 
maintenance and operating personnel, and provide this information to the MDA for approval.  

(2)  The MDA, in consultation with the supporting developmental and operational and/or 
live fire test organization, and with the concurrence of DOT&E for programs under DOT&E 
oversight, will determine: 

(a)  Whether the capability has been adequately reviewed, performs satisfactorily, is 
supportable, and is ready for production and deployment. 

(b)  When assessments of fielded capabilities are required. 

(3)  The MDA decides whether to produce and, in coordination with the requester/user, 
field the capability, approves the updated acquisition strategy, which will include the sustainment 
plan, and program baseline, and documents the production decision in an ADM. 

c.  During P&D the acquiring organization provides the warfighter with the needed 
capability, to include any required training, spares, technical data to include known hazards and 
accepted mishap risks, computer software, temporary or permanent facilities or infrastructure, 
support equipment, maintenance, or other logistics support necessary for operation. 

(1)  The DoD Components will ensure that the capability and required support (e.g., field 
service representatives, training) are deployed by the most expeditious means possible and 
tracked through to their actual delivery to the user. 

(2)  The DoD Components will coordinate with each other and the requiring activity to 
verify the total number of items required, considering necessary support and spares and training 
assets for deployed or pre-deployment training. 

d.  Upon deployment, the capability will enter O&S. 

4.5.  O&S. 

a.  The PM will execute a supportability strategy that meets materiel readiness and 
operational support performance requirements, is safe, and sustains the capability in the most 
cost-effective manner over its anticipated total life cycle.  Planning for O&S, including support 
funding, will begin during pre-development and will be documented in the acquisition strategy. 

b.  The capability is operated and supported consistent with the sustainment plan approved by 
the MDA at the production milestone. 

c.  The PM or the user community may propose urgently needed improvements to the 
capability.  If within the scope of the initial requirement document, procedures in this issuance 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
17 

may be used to acquire the improvements.  If improvements are outside the scope of the 
validated or approved requirement document, a new or amended requirement document may be 
required. 

d.  In collaboration with the original requesting DoD Component, a post-deployment 
assessment will be conducted after deployment.  If practical, the PM will conduct the assessment 
in the field by the supporting operational test organization.  If not practical, the PM may use 
alternate means for this assessment to include PM or operational test agency assessment of user 
feedback or other DoD Component feedback.  Post-deployment assessment approaches for all 
programs under DOT&E oversight will be independently reviewed and approved by DOT&E. 

e.  No later than 1 year after the program enters O&S (or earlier if directed by the DoD 
Component), the DoD Component will appoint an official to conduct a disposition analysis.  The 
DoD Component will notify the Executive Director, JRAC and the Deputy Director for 
Requirements and Capability Development in the Joint Staff J-8, when the disposition analyses 
for JUONs, JEONs, critical warfighter issues identified by the Warfighter SIG, or SecDef or 
DepSecDef RAA determinations are to be completed.  

(1)  The disposition analysis will consider the performance of the fielded capability, 
mishap data, long term operational needs, and the relationship of the capability to the 
component’s current and planned inventory of equipment. 

(2)  The analysis will also consider the continuation of non-materiel initiatives, the 
extension of science and technology developments related to the fielded capability, and the 
completion of MDA-approved and funded materiel improvements. 

(3)  The disposition official will recommend one of the following options: 

(a)  Termination:  Demilitarization or Disposal.  The capability will be demilitarized 
and disposed of in accordance with all legal and regulatory requirements and policy related to 
safety (including explosive safety) and the environment.  The recommendation will be 
coordinated with the DoD Component or, for JUONs and JEONs, the Combatant Commands. 

(b)  Sustainment for Current Contingency.  Operation and sustainment of the 
capability will continue for the current contingency.  Multiple sustainment decisions may be 
made should the capability require operations and support longer than two years; however, such 
sustainment decisions will be made and re-documented at least every two years.  The sustained 
capability will continue to receive the same priority of action as the original acquisition program.  
This recommendation will be coordinated with the requirements validation authority. 

(c)  Transition to a Program of Record.  If the capability serves an enduring purpose, 
it may be transitioned to a program of record, once funded in the component’s budget.  
Supportability and sustainment planning for Urgent Capability Acquisition should include 
interim contract support and contract logistics support until the capability’s formal programmed 
funding is established.  


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

SECTION 4:  PROCEDURES  
18 

1.  The disposition official will recommend to the CAE the acquisition point of 

entry into the defense acquisition system, and whether the MDA should retain program authority 
or whether it should transition elsewhere. 

2.  The requirements validation authority will specify the capability requirement 

documents required to support transition to a new or existing program of record. 

(4)  The disposition recommendation will be made to the DoD Component head for 
UONs, critical warfighter issues identified by the Warfighter SIG, or SecDef or DepSecDef 
RAA determinations. 

(5)  The DoD Component head and the CAE will review the disposition official’s 
recommendation and, within 4 months of receipt of the recommendation, record the DoD 
Component head’s transition decision in a disposition determination.  The disposition 
determinations for JUONs, JEONs, critical warfighter issues identified by the Warfighter SIG, or 
SecDef or DepSecDef RAA determinations, will be provided to the Executive Director, JRAC 
and the Deputy Director for Requirements and Capability Development in the Joint Staff J-8 by 
the Component head. 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

GLOSSARY 
19 

GLOSSARY 

G.1.  ACRONYMS. 

ADM 
acquisition decision memorandum 
 
 
CAE 
component acquisition executive 
CJCS 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
 
 
DAE 
Defense Acquisition Executive 
DepSecDef 
Deputy Secretary of Defense 
DoDD 
DoD directive 
DoDI 
DoD instruction 
DOT&E 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
 
 
J-8 
Joint Staff Force Structure, Resources, and Assessment Directorate 
JRAC 
Joint Rapid Acquisition Cell 
JEON 
joint emergent operational need 
JUON 
joint urgent operational need 
 
 
MDA 
milestone decision authority 
 
 
O&S 
operations and support 
 
 
P&D 
production and deployment 
PL 
Public Law 
PM 
program manager 
 
 
RAA 
rapid acquisition authority 
 
 
SecDef 
Secretary of Defense 
SIG 
senior integration group 
 
 
TEMP 
test and evaluation master plan 
 
 
UON 
urgent operational need 
U.S.C. 
United States Code 
USD(A&S) 
Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and Sustainment) 
USD(C)/CFO 
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer, 
Department of Defense 
USD(R&E) 
Under Secretary of Defense (Research and Engineering) 

G.2.  DEFINITIONS.  Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the 
purpose of this issuance.  


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

GLOSSARY 
20 

critical warfighter issue.  A critical warfighter issue, e.g., materiel support to a coalition 
partner, identified by the co-chairs of the Warfighter SIG in accordance with DoDD 5000.71.   

RAA.  A determination that is made in response to a documented deficiency following 
consultation with the Joint Staff.  RAA is one of several processes that can expedite DoD rapid 
acquisitions, in accordance with Section 806(c) of PL 107-314.   

JEON.  Defined in CJCS Instruction 5123.01H.  

JUON.  Defined in CJCS Instruction 5123.01H.  

UON.  Defined in CJCS Instruction 5123.01H  

 


DoDI 5000.81, December 31, 2019 

REFERENCES 
21 

REFERENCES 

Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 5123.01H, “Charter Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council (JROC) and Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and 
Development System (JCIDS),” August 31, 2018 

Deputy Secretary of Defense Memorandum, “Establishment of the Office of the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Research Engineering and the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment,” July 13, 2018 

DoDD 5000.02, “The Defense Acquisition System,” August 31, 2018, as amended 
DoDD 5000.71, “Rapid Fulfillment of Combatant Commander Urgent Operational Needs,” 
August 24, 2012, as amended 

DoDD 5134.01, “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics,” 
December 9, 2005, as amended 

DoDI 5000.02, “Operation of the Defense Acquisition System,” January 7, 2015, as amended 
DoDI 8510.01, “Risk Management Framework (RMF) for DoD Information Technology (IT),” 
March 12, 2014, as amended 

DoDM 5000.78, “Rapid Acquisition Authority,” March 20, 2019 
DoDM 8910.01, Volume 1, “DoD Information Collections Manual: Procedures for DoD Internal 
Information Collections,” June 30, 2014, as amended 

Secretary of Defense Publication, “2018 National Defense Strategy,” January 19, 2018 
Public Law 107-314, Section 806(c), “The Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2003,” December 2, 2002, as amended 

United States Code, Title 10, Section 2366 
United States Code, Title 40, Subtitle III 
 
 


