 
 
 
DOD INSTRUCTION 5000.80 
OPERATION OF THE MIDDLE TIER OF ACQUISITION 
 
 
Originating Component: 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
 
Effective: 
December 30, 2019 
Change 1 Effective:  
November 25, 2024 
 
Releasability: 
Cleared for public release.  Available on the Directives Division Website 
at https://www.esd.whs.mil/DD/. 
 
Approved by: 
Ellen M. Lord, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 
Change 1 Approved by: 
William A. LaPlante, Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
Sustainment 
 
 
Purpose: In accordance with the authority in DoD Directive (DoDD) 5135.02, this issuance establishes 
policy, assigns responsibilities, and prescribes procedures for the management of the middle tier of 
acquisition (MTA) for rapid prototyping and rapid fielding in Section 804 of Public Law 114-92. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
2 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION .............................................................................. 4 
1.1.  Applicability. .................................................................................................................... 4 
1.2.  Policy. ............................................................................................................................... 4 
1.3.  Summary of Change 1. ..................................................................................................... 6 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES ......................................................................................................... 7 
2.1.  USD(A&S). ....................................................................................................................... 7 
2.2.  USD(R&E). ....................................................................................................................... 7 
2.3.  USD(C)/CFO. ................................................................................................................... 8 
2.4.  Director, Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E). ..................................................... 8 
2.5.  DCAPE. ............................................................................................................................ 8 
2.6.  DoD and OSD Component Heads with MTA programs. ................................................. 8 
2.7.  DoD Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO). .................................................................... 9 
2.8.  VCJCS............................................................................................................................. 10 
SECTION 3:  PROCEDURES .............................................................................................................. 11 
3.1.  Rapid Prototyping. .......................................................................................................... 11 
a.  Operational Needs. ....................................................................................................... 11 
b.  Acquisition and Funding Strategies. ............................................................................ 11 
c.  Demonstrating and Evaluating Performance. .............................................................. 11 
d.  Transitioning MTA Rapid Prototyping Programs. ...................................................... 11 
3.2.  Rapid Fielding. ................................................................................................................ 11 
a.  Operational Needs. ....................................................................................................... 11 
b.  Demonstrating and Evaluating Performance. .............................................................. 11 
c.  Acquisition and Funding Strategies. ............................................................................ 12 
d.  Lifecycle Cost, Logistics Support, and Interoperability. ............................................. 12 
e.  Reducing Total Ownership Cost. ................................................................................. 12 
f.  Sustainment Metrics. .................................................................................................... 12 
g.  Transitioning MTA Rapid Fielding Programs. ............................................................ 12 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................................................................... 13 
4.1.  Entrance. ......................................................................................................................... 13 
4.2.  Governance. .................................................................................................................... 15 
4.3.  Exit. ................................................................................................................................. 15 
4.4.  MTA PROGRAM termination. ...................................................................................... 15 
4.5.  Pre-Existing MTA Programs. ......................................................................................... 15 
4.6.  MTA Companion Guide. ................................................................................................ 15 
4.7.  Additional requirements.................................................................................................. 16 
GLOSSARY ..................................................................................................................................... 17 
G.1.  Acronyms. ...................................................................................................................... 17 
G.2.  Definitions. ..................................................................................................................... 17 
REFERENCES .................................................................................................................................. 19 
 
TABLES 
Table 1.  MTA Entrance Documentation Deliverables ................................................................ 13 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
3 
FIGURES 
Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework. ................................................................................. 5 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
4 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
1.1.  APPLICABILITY.  This issuance applies to OSD, the Military Departments, the Office of 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Combatant Commands, the 
Office of Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, the DoD Field 
Activities, and all other organizational entities within the DoD (referred to collectively in this 
issuance as the “DoD Components”). 
1.2.  POLICY. 
a.  The overarching management principles that govern the defense acquisition system (DAS) 
are described in DoDD 5000.01 and DoD Instruction (DoDI) 5000.02. 
(1)  The objective of the DAS is to support the National Defense Strategy, through the 
development of a more lethal force based on U.S. technological innovation and a culture of 
performance that yields a decisive and sustained U.S. military advantage. 
(2)  To achieve that objective, the DoD will employ an adaptive acquisition framework 
comprised of acquisition pathways, shown in Figure 1, each tailored for the unique 
characteristics and risk profile of the capability being acquired.  The adaptive acquisition 
framework supports the DAS with the objective of delivering effective, secure, supportable, and 
affordable solutions to the end user while enabling execution at the speed of relevance.  This 
issuance describes the responsibilities of principal acquisition officials and the purpose and key 
characteristics of the MTA acquisition pathway. 
b.  The MTA pathway is intended to fill a gap in the DAS for those capabilities that have a 
level of maturity to allow them to be rapidly prototyped within an acquisition program or fielded, 
within 5 years of MTA program start.  The MTA pathway may be used to accelerate capability 
maturation before transitioning to another acquisition pathway or may be used to minimally 
develop a capability before rapidly fielding. 
c.  The rapid prototyping path provides for the use of innovative technologies to rapidly 
develop fieldable prototypes to demonstrate new capabilities and meet emerging military needs.  
The objective of an acquisition program under this path will be to field a prototype meeting 
defined requirements that can be demonstrated in an operational environment and provide for a 
residual operational capability within 5 years of the MTA program start date.  Virtual 
prototyping models are acceptable if they result in a fieldable residual operational capability.  
MTA programs may not be planned to exceed 5 years to completion and, in execution, will not 
exceed 5 years after MTA program start without a Defense Acquisition Executive (DAE) waiver. 
d.  The rapid fielding path provides for the use of proven technologies to field production 
quantities of new or upgraded systems with minimal development required.  The objective of an 
acquisition program under this path will be to begin production within 6 months, complete 
fielding within 5 years of the MTA program start date, and enter into operations and sustainment.  
MTA program production start date will not exceed 6 months after the MTA program start date 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
5 
without a DAE waiver.  MTA programs may not be planned to exceed 5 years to completion 
and, in execution, will not exceed 5 years after MTA program start without a DAE waiver. 
Figure 1.  Adaptive Acquisition Framework. 
 
e.  Not all programs are appropriate for the MTA pathway.  Major systems intended to satisfy 
requirements that are critical to a major interagency requirement, are primarily focused on 
technology development, or have significant international partner involvement are discouraged 
from using the MTA pathway.  For programs that include international partner involvement, 
program managers (PMs) must ensure that all efforts to design and implement exportability to 
foreign partners are consistent with Sections 2457 and 4067 of Title 10, United States Code 
(U.S.C.); Section 1049 of Public Law 115-232; and other applicable statutes. 
f.  MTA programs will not be subject to the guidance in Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
Instruction 5123.01 and DoDD 5000.01.  Each DoD Component will develop a streamlined 
process in accordance with Paragraph 2.6.  These streamlined processes provide the DoD more 
pathways to manage risk associated with the tradeoff between speed and interoperability across 
the joint force. 
g.  DoD Component-required procedures will be compliant with applicable statutes and 
consistent with the requirements for acquisition programs stated in this issuance.  When 
necessary, requests for waivers to the provisions of this issuance will be submitted to the DAE. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 1:  GENERAL ISSUANCE INFORMATION 
6 
1.3.  SUMMARY OF CHANGE 1. 
The changes to this issuance: 
a.  Reflect statutory changes and changes implemented through signed policies to: 
(1)  Include program start date and major defense acquisition program (MDAP) 
equivalent definitions. 
(2)  Update respective provisions to reflect revisions to Title 10, U.S.C. 
(3)  Add references to the Adaptive Acquisition Framework Document Identification 
(AAFDID) tool. 
(4)  Include sustainment metrics, exportability considerations, and transition plan 
requirements. 
(5)  Include applicable policies from the July 19, 2022 Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S)) Memorandum on cost accounting for MTA 
programs. 
(6)  Add clarifying language for classified MTA data and use of the software pathway. 
b.  Update references. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
7 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
2.1.  USD(A&S).  In addition to the responsibilities in Paragraph 2.6., the USD(A&S): 
a.  Establishes policy and provides guidance for the MTA pathway in consultation with the: 
(1)  Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (USD(R&E)). 
(2)  Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer, Department of 
Defense (USD(C)/CFO). 
(3)  Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation (DCAPE). 
(4)  Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff (VCJCS). 
b.  Determines when a program is not appropriate for the MTA pathway.  The USD(A&S) 
may disapprove use of the MTA pathway and direct use of an alternate acquisition pathway.  
Programs exceeding the dollar thresholds for an MDAP pursuant to Section 4201 of Title 10, 
U.S.C., require written approval prior to using the MTA pathway. 
c.  Advises the decision authorities (DAs) on their MTA programs and works with them to 
ensure streamlined processes. 
d.  Advises DoD Components and makes recommendations to the Secretary of Defense on 
the use of rapid acquisition authority. 
e.  Determines, when appropriate, whether to waive any policies in this instruction.  The 
authority to waive the requirements to complete a program within 5 years and initiate production 
within 6 months for programs that are not MDAP equivalent programs is delegated to the DoD 
Component acquisition executive (CAE) and may not be further delegated. 
f.  Maintains responsibility for prototyping activities within the MTA pathway. 
2.2.  USD(R&E).  In addition to the responsibilities in Paragraph 2.6., the USD(R&E): 
a.  Consults with the USD(A&S) on policies and guidance for the MTA pathway. 
b.  Advises the USD(A&S) on MTA program technologies, program protection, 
developmental testing, program risks, and other areas as appropriate. 
c.  Advises the USD(A&S) on MTA program performance and execution metrics. 
d.  Manages the DoD rapid prototyping fund established in Section 804 of 
Public Law 114-92. 
e.  Advises DoD Components on program planning that anticipates the evolution of 
capabilities to meet the changing threats, technology insertion, and interoperability. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
8 
f.  Selects MTA programs for developmental test and evaluation oversight in accordance with 
Section 133a of Title 10, U.S.C., DoDD 5137.02, DoDI 5000.88, and DoDI 5000.89. 
2.3.  USD(C)/CFO.  The USD(C)/CFO: 
a.  Consults with the USD(A&S) on policies and guidance for the MTA pathway. 
b.  Reviews and advises on funding for programs using the MTA pathway through the 
normal planning, programming, budgeting, and execution processes of the DoD. 
2.4.  DIRECTOR, OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION (DOT&E).  The DOT&E: 
a.  Advises the USD(A&S) and DoD Components and monitors the planning and execution 
of MTA program operational demonstrations. 
b.  Selects MTA programs for DOT&E operational or live fire test and evaluation oversight 
using the authority in Sections 139 and 4172 of Title 10, U.S.C., as applicable. 
c.  Reviews and approves tailored test strategies for operational demonstration plans and 
assessments for MTA programs designated for DOT&E oversight. 
d.  Establishes operational demonstration planning and assessment guidelines for MTA 
programs, as appropriate. 
2.5.  DCAPE.  The DCAPE: 
a.  Advises the USD(A&S) on schedule, resource allocation, affordability, systems analysis, 
cost estimation and the performance implications of proposed MTA programs. 
b.  Establishes policies and prescribes procedures for the collection of cost data and cost 
estimates for MTA programs, as appropriate. 
2.6.  DOD AND OSD COMPONENT HEADS WITH MTA PROGRAMS.  The DoD and 
OSD Component heads with MTA programs oversee their MTA programs through their CAEs 
and PMs.  Each DoD and OSD Component develops a streamlined process that results in a 
succinct requirements document no later than 6 months from the time the operational needs 
process is initiated.  In order to promote rapid action, approval authorities for each capability 
requirement may be delegated to a level no lower than the PM. 
a.  CAEs: 
(1)  Designate a PM and product support manager for each program using the MTA 
pathway. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
9 
(2)  Serve as the DA for programs approved for the MTA pathway and implement the 
procedures in this issuance.  CAEs may delegate this authority to an individual at a level not 
lower than the PM but must ensure their designees implement the procedures in this issuance. 
b.  PMs: 
(1)  Develop acquisition strategies, execute approved program plans, field capabilities, 
and report program status. 
(2)  Employ an innovative and disciplined approach and seek appropriate alternatives to 
any regulatory requirements that increase burden without adding value to their programs in 
accordance with relevant provisions. 
(3)  “Tailor- in” reviews, assessments, and relevant documentation that results in an 
acquisition strategy customized to the unique characteristics and risks of their program, including 
intellectual property and exportability. 
(4)  Ensure operational, technical, security risks, and current and emerging adversary 
capabilities and threats to the program are identified and reduced so that fielded systems are 
capable, effective, and resilient. 
(5)  Comply with statutory requirements unless waived in accordance with relevant 
provisions. 
(6)  Develop innovative and disciplined approaches for approval by the CAE or DA to 
implement appropriate alternatives to any regulatory requirements that are viewed as not 
applicable or do not add value to rapid development of fieldable prototypes that demonstrate new 
capabilities and meet emerging military needs.  Ensure DoD business owners within the PM 
organization for applicable regulatory processes are appropriately notified of recommended 
alternatives to any regulatory requirements that are viewed as not applicable. 
(7)  Submit MTA documentation, within 14 days of approval by the DA, to the 
Knowledge Management and Decision Support System for review by the Joint Staff to determine 
if a proposed capability fulfills a gap in joint military capabilities.  This submission does not 
constitute entrance into the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System process.  
Submission of documents into the Knowledge Management and Decision Support System 
provides the Joint Staff visibility into the MTA program so the Joint Staff can ensure 
requirements are sound and risks are appropriately addressed. 
(8)  In accordance with DoDI 5000.91 and with the support of the product support 
managers, develop and implement sustainment programs addressing applicable integrated 
product support elements to deliver affordable readiness. 
2.7.  DOD CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER (DOD CIO).  The DoD CIO: 
a.  Advises the USD(A&S) on policies and guidance for the MTA Pathway. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 2:  RESPONSIBILITIES 
10 
b.  Advises the USD(A&S) on MTA program technologies, information systems, 
cybersecurity, and other areas, as appropriate. 
2.8.  VCJCS.  The VCJCS: 
a.  Consults with the USD(A&S), as appropriate, on policies and guidance for the MTA 
pathway. 
b.  Maintains a library of MTA requirement documents available to DoD Components. 
c.  Advises DoD Components on interoperability across the joint force, cybersecurity of 
military networks, and alignment with future warfighting concepts. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 3:  PROCEDURES 
11 
SECTION 3:  PROCEDURES 
3.1.  RAPID PROTOTYPING. 
a.  Operational Needs.  DoD Components will develop a merit-based process for the 
consideration of innovative technologies and new capabilities to meet needs communicated by 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Combatant Commanders.  This process will result in an 
approved requirement and a DA signed acquisition decision memorandum (ADM) that validates 
the rationale for using the MTA pathway and identifies the full funding required. 
b.  Acquisition and Funding Strategies.  DoD Components will develop a process to 
implement acquisition and full funding strategies for the program.  This process will result in an 
acquisition strategy, which includes security, schedule and production risks, and a cost estimate. 
c.  Demonstrating and Evaluating Performance.  DoD Components will develop a process 
for demonstrating performance and evaluating the proposed products and technologies for 
current operational purposes.  This process will result in a test strategy or an assessment of test 
results, included in the acquisition strategy, documenting the evaluation of the demonstrated 
operational performance, to include validation against required non-kinetic threats (i.e., 
cybersecurity; electromagnetic spectrum; chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear; and 
space) and interoperability requirements, as applicable.  Programs on the DOT&E oversight list 
will follow applicable procedures, in accordance with DoDI 5000.89. 
d.  Transitioning MTA Rapid Prototyping Programs.  For each MTA program, DoD 
Components will develop a process for transitioning successful prototypes to new or existing 
acquisition programs for production, fielding, and operations and sustainment under the rapid 
fielding pathway or other acquisition pathway.  This process will result in a transition plan, to be 
provided to the Office of the USD(A&S) via the AIR database, within 2 years of program start.  
The transition plan will provide a timeline for completion of all necessary documentation 
required for transition to an alternative pathway, as determined by the DA, no later than 3 
months before program completion. 
3.2.  RAPID FIELDING. 
a.  Operational Needs.  DoD Components will develop a merit-based process for the 
consideration of existing products and proven technologies to meet needs communicated by the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Combatant Commanders.  This process will result in an approved 
requirement and a DA signed ADM, with minimum fielding plan criteria, identifying the full 
funding required. 
b.  Demonstrating and Evaluating Performance.  DoD Components will develop a process 
for demonstrating performance and evaluating the proposed products and technologies for 
current operational purposes.  This process will result in a test strategy and an assessment of test 
results, included in the acquisition strategy, documenting the evaluation of the demonstrated 
operational performance, to include validation against required non-kinetic threat threats (i.e., 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 3:  PROCEDURES 
12 
cybersecurity; electromagnetic spectrum; chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear; and 
space) and interoperability requirements, as applicable.  The operational demonstration 
assessment will support the initial production decision by the DA.  Programs on the DOT&E 
oversight list shall ensure they are operating in full compliance with DoDI 5000.89. 
c.  Acquisition and Funding Strategies.  DoD Components will develop a process to 
implement acquisition and full funding strategies for the program.  This process will result in an 
acquisition strategy, which includes security, schedule and production risks, and a cost estimate. 
d.  Lifecycle Cost, Logistics Support, and Interoperability.  DoD Components will 
develop a process for considering lifecycle costs and address issues of logistics support and 
training; system, security risk, joint, and coalition interoperability; and planning for cooperative 
opportunities, to include foreign sales.  This process will result in a tailored lifecycle sustainment 
plan, in accordance with DoDI 5000.89.  MTA programs that exceed the MDAP threshold must 
comply with the requirements for covered systems in Sections 4323 and 4324 of Title 10, U.S.C., 
and DoDI 5000.91. 
e.  Reducing Total Ownership Cost.  DoD Components will develop a process for 
identifying and exploiting opportunities to use the rapid fielding pathway to reduce total 
ownership costs.  Success in this process will result in a tailored lifecycle sustainment plan that 
considers the integrated product support elements. 
f.  Sustainment Metrics.  Each MTA rapid fielding program will include sustainment 
requirements in its design requirements, system specifications, and contracts.  These 
requirements are the same metrics used by MDAP and major capability acquisition pathway 
systems (e.g., materiel availability, operational availability, reliability, maintainability, human 
systems integration, and operating and support costs).  However, MTA programs will not use the 
Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System process.  After initial operational 
capability or transition to the major capability acquisition pathway, MTA systems will be added 
to the required list of systems reporting all required sustainment data into the Advana Executive 
Analytics section, in accordance with DoDI 3110.05.  A transition plan is required 2 years from 
the MTA program start date for programs using either the MTA rapid prototyping or MTA rapid 
fielding pathway. 
g.  Transitioning MTA Rapid Fielding Programs.  For each MTA program, DoD 
Components will develop a process for transitioning successful programs to operations and 
sustainment.  This process will result in a transition plan, to be provided to the Office of the 
USD(A&S) via the AIR database, within 2 years of program start.  The transition plan will 
provide a timeline for completion of all necessary documentation required for transition to an 
alternative pathway, as determined by the DA, no later than 3 months before program 
completion. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION 
13 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION 
4.1.  ENTRANCE. 
a.  The DA will approve MTA program documentation within their purview.  Table 1 
describes the documentation CAEs will ensure is available via Nonclassified Internet Protocol 
Router Network or SECRET Internet Protocol Router Network Defense Acquisition Visibility 
Environment (DAVE) or Acquisition Information Repository data entry or interfaces. 
Table 1.  MTA Entrance Documentation Deliverables 
Major System
1 
Non-Major System
2 
Rapid 
Prototyping 
• ADM signed by the DA 
• Approved Requirement3 
• Acquisition Strategy4 
• Cost Estimate5 
• ADM signed by the DA 
Rapid 
Fielding 
• ADM signed by the DA 
• Approved Requirement3 
• Acquisition Strategy56 
• Cost Estimate5 
• Lifecycle sustainment plan7  
• ADM signed by the DA 
1.  Above threshold as defined pursuant to Section 3041 of Title 10, 
U.S.C. 
2.  Equal to or below threshold as defined pursuant to Section 3041 of 
Title 10, U.S.C. 
3.  CAEs will ensure the approved requirement document is available in 
the Knowledge Management and Decision Support System. 
4.  Rapid prototyping acquisition strategies will include security, 
schedule, and technical risks; and, a test strategy or an assessment of test 
results. 
5.  Cost estimate conducted in accordance with DoDI 5000.73. 
6.  Rapid fielding acquisition strategies will include security, schedule, 
and production risks; and, a test strategy and assessment of test results. 
7.  Rapid fielding programs that exceed the MDAP threshold must 
comply with the requirements for covered systems in Sections 4323 and 
4324 of Title 10, U.S.C., and DoDI 5000.91. 
 
b.  For any MTA program expected to require an eventual total expenditure that exceeds the 
major system threshold defined pursuant to Section 3041 of Title 10, U.S.C., CAEs will ensure 
documentation in Table 1 is available via DAVE at the time of the President’s budget 
submission.  Full funding plans for the MTA program (to include year of execution), will be 
reflected in the documentation, consistent with the cost estimate. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION 
14 
c.  For MTA programs that exceed the MDAP dollar threshold, the DA will submit the 
approved acquisition strategy and initiate the new program in DAVE.  The DA will request 
approval from the Advisory Board (described in Paragraph 4.2.) for MDAP equivalent programs 
to use the MTA pathway. 
d.  Any MTA program expected to exceed the MDAP threshold defined pursuant to Section 
4201 of Title 10, U.S.C., requires a written decision from the USD(A&S), after consultation with 
the Advisory Board defined in Paragraph 4.2., approving use of the MTA pathway, or direction 
to use an alternative strategy, before obligation of funds to a performing activity.  Considerations 
will include the strategic risks involved, the scope and criticality of the desired capability, 
whether programs are well positioned to meet statutory requirements based on review and input 
from relevant advisors and whether the program is well-suited for use of the MTA pathway.  
Documents initiated and approved outside of those required by this issuance are not required to 
be submitted into the Acquisition Information Repository or DAVE database.  MTA programs 
that are estimated to require an eventual total expenditure that exceeds the MDAP threshold must 
comply with the requirements for covered systems in Sections 4323 and 4324 of Title 10, U.S.C., 
and DoDI 5000.91. 
e.  For programs that are not expected to be MDAP equivalent programs, the DA will sign an 
ADM to approve the program’s use of the MTA pathway.  The date of signature will be the 
official program start date.   
f.  For programs that enter the MTA pathway below the MDAP funding threshold and later 
exceed it, an update must be provided to the full MTA Advisory Board to address any concerns 
about significant growth of the program. 
g.  In addition to the documentation listed in Table 1, DoD Components will ensure 
availability of the program identification data (PID) via DAVE interfaces.  (For a description of 
PID requirements and connection to the submission portal, see the MTA pathway at the Adaptive 
Acquisition Framework page on the Defense Acquisition University website at:  
https://www.dau.edu/aafdid/mta).  PID requirements are tiered between major and non-major 
systems.  DoD Components will submit updated PID via DAVE data entry or interfaces with the 
President’s Budget and Program Objective Memorandum submissions to OSD.  DoD 
Components must comply with the online PID requirements, consistent with the policy specified 
in this issuance.  Substantive changes to online content not required by law must be formally 
coordinated following the guidelines in DoDI 5025.01.  Substantive changes include any 
additional requirements that add to the financial and personnel burden of any DoD Components. 
h.  CAEs will ensure that MTA program names and budget reporting clearly and discretely 
indicate the scope of the effort being conducted under the MTA pathway, especially when the 
MTA program is a subprogram of a larger program or is a program spiral, increment, or block 
upgrade.  The Office of the USD(A&S) will maintain the authoritative list of MTA programs for 
the DoD. 
i.  Programs using the MTA pathway are encouraged to consider the use of modern software 
practices, such as Agile, DevSecOps, and Lean, in the development of their programs, as 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION 
15 
appropriate.  PMs should use DoDI 5000.87 for Agile metrics and value assessments as a 
reference when including software in their program. 
4.2.  GOVERNANCE.  The USD(A&S) will chair the MTA Advisory Board comprised of the 
CAEs, the VCJCS, the USD(R&E), the DCAPE, the DOT&E, the USD(C)/CFO, DoD CIO, and 
others as requested by the USD(A&S) to assess the use of the MTA authority when a request is 
made by a CAE for a program that exceeds the MDAP threshold to use the MTA pathway, as 
provided in Paragraph 4.1.c.  In the event of a USD(A&S) decision that any program is not 
appropriate for the MTA pathway, the USD(A&S) will direct the program to use an alternate 
acquisition pathway.   
4.3.  EXIT.  No later than 60 calendar days after the MTA program completion date, CAEs will 
submit the following documentation via DAVE interfaces: 
a.  Outcome determination ADM signed by the DA. 
b.  An assessment of test results. 
c.  Final PID capturing updated entries, to include the outcome, sustainment, and final budget 
of the MTA program. 
4.4.  MTA PROGRAM TERMINATION.  In the case a DA terminates an acquisition program 
using the MTA pathway, the DA will provide notification of the termination to the Office of the 
USD(A&S) within 7 days.  The Office of the USD(A&S) will submit a notification of such 
termination to Congress within 30 days.  The congressional notification will include: 
a.  The initial amount of a contract awarded under such acquisition program; 
b.  The aggregate amount of funds awarded under such contract; and 
c.  Written documentation of the reason for termination of such acquisition program. 
4.5.  PRE-EXISTING MTA PROGRAMS.  MTA programs designated prior to December 30, 
2019, will maintain their MTA program start date of funds first obligated.  No later than 
60 calendar days after the effective date of this issuance, pre-existing MTA programs will 
comply with this issuance, to include Table 1 deliverables. 
4.6.  MTA COMPANION GUIDE.  Additional information is available to expand upon the 
MTA policy established in this issuance at the Adaptive Acquisition Framework page on the 
Defense Acquisition University Website at:  https://aaf.dau.edu/aaf/mta/. 
 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
SECTION 4:  IMPLEMENTATION 
16 
4.7.  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.  The online requirements specified at 
https://www.dau.edu/aafdid/mta will inform MTA program management and are to be treated the 
same as if the requirements were published in this issuance.  Substantive changes to the online 
requirements, not required by law, must be formally coordinated in accordance with the 
procedures in DoDI 5025.01.  Substantive changes include any additional requirements that add 
to the financial, personnel, or administrative burden of any of the DoD Components. 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
GLOSSARY 
17 
GLOSSARY 
G.1.  ACRONYMS. 
AAFDID 
Adaptive Acquisition Framework Document Identification 
ADM 
acquisition decision memorandum 
 
CAE 
component acquisition executive 
 
DA 
decision authority 
DAE 
Defense Acquisition Executive 
DAS 
defense acquisition system 
DAVE 
Defense Acquisition Visibility Environment 
DCAPE 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation 
DoD CIO 
DoD Chief Information Officer 
DoDD 
DoD directive 
DoDI 
DoD instruction 
DOT&E 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
 
MDAP 
major defense acquisition program 
MTA 
middle tier of acquisition 
 
PID 
program identification data 
PM 
program manager 
 
U.S.C. 
United States Code 
USD(A&S) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
USD(C)/CFO 
Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller)/Chief Financial Officer, 
Department of Defense 
USD(R&E) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
 
VCJCS 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
G.2.  DEFINITIONS.  Unless otherwise noted, these terms and their definitions are for the 
purpose of this issuance. 
MDAP equivalent.  An equivalence determined by applying the thresholds specified in 
Section 4201 of Title 10, U.S.C., to the total estimated cost over the MTA period, which should 
not exceed 5 years. 
MTA program completion date.  The date of an outcome determination ADM signed by the 
DA stating that the rapid prototyping program has transitioned to an existing acquisition 
program, transitioned to a new acquisition program, transitioned to a different acquisition 
pathway, has residual operational capability sustained in the field, transitioned to rapid fielding, 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
GLOSSARY 
18 
or terminated.  For rapid fielding programs, the date of an outcome determination ADM stating 
that the minimum fielding plan criteria approved by the DA, have been met. 
MTA program production start.  The date of funds first obligated to perform production 
activities. 
MTA program start date.  The date an ADM is signed by the DA initiating the effort as an 
MTA rapid prototyping or MTA rapid fielding program, consistent with this issuance. 
operational environment.  A set of operational conditions, selected by the users in coordination 
with the appropriate independent operational testing agency that are representative of the desired 
spectrum of operational employments. 
prototype.  A model built to evaluate and inform its feasibility or usefulness.  Non-physical 
models are acceptable if the non-physical model is the residual operational capability to be 
fielded. 
residual operational capability.  For rapid prototyping programs, residual operational 
capability will be considered any military utility for an operational user that can be fielded. 
 
DoDI 5000.80, December 30, 2019 
Change 1, November 25, 2024 
REFERENCES 
19 
REFERENCES 
Acquisition Information Repository (AIR) User Guide, April 2022 
Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff Instruction 5123.01, “Charter of the Joint Requirements 
Oversight Council and Implementation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development 
System,” current edition 
DoD Directive 5000.01, “The Defense Acquisition System,” September 9, 2020, as amended 
DoD Directive 5135.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
(USD(A&S)),” July 15, 2020 
DoD Directive 5137.02, “Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
(USD(R&E)),” July 15, 2020 
DoD Instruction 3110.05, “Sustainment Health Metrics in Support of Materiel Availability,” 
April 24, 2024 
DoD Instruction 5000.02, “Operation of the Adaptative Acquisition Framework,” 
January 23, 2020, as amended 
DoD Instruction 5000.73, “Cost Analysis Guidance and Procedures,” October 24, 2024 
DoD Instruction 5000.87, “Operation of the Software Acquisition Pathway,” October 2, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.88, “Engineering of Defense Systems,” November 18, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.89, “Test and Evaluation,” November 19, 2020 
DoD Instruction 5000.91, “Product Support Management for the Adaptive Acquisition 
Framework,” November 4, 2021 
DoD Instruction 5025.01, “DoD Issuances Program,” August 1, 2016, as amended 
National Defense Strategy, 2022 
Public Law 114-92, Section 804, “National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2016,” 
November 25, 2015, as amended 
Public Law 115-232, Section 1049, “John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2019,” August 13, 2018, as amended 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment Memorandum, “Accounting for 
Program Costs When Acquisition Framework Pathways Are Used Sequentially or in 
Combination,” July 19, 2022 
United States Code, Title 10 
