PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 1 of 6 

 

 

 

DATA ITEM DESCRIPTION 

1. TITLE 

CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS (CONOPS) 
(OPERATIONAL SOLUTION DESCRIPTION-OSD) 

2. IDENTIFICATION NUMBER 

PPA-004023-8  
13 January 2023 

3. DESCRIPTION/PURPOSE OF THE CONOPS 

3.1 The Concept of Operations (CONOPS/OSD) describes the conceptual approach to achieving an enterprise outcome or 
capability, focussing on operations, as contrasted to the whole of the solution to the whole of the problem on a life cycle 
basis. The CONOPS/OSD also may contain a description of solution or solution element external behavior (how the 
solution/solution element will behave, from a user's point of view, in meeting its requirements, to the extent that the 
design defines behavior more detailed than, and consistent with, solution requirements, and ignoring internal 
implementation). 

3.2 The CONOPS/OSD is used to communicate the conceptual solution within the solution development team, to internal 
and external stakeholders (especially to system and solution element users), to independent verifiers, to acquirers of 
solution elements, maintainers and modifiers, as applicable. The term “system” is used throughout section 5.2 “Content 
Requirements”, to mean the solution, within the scope of the CONOPS/OSD, to provision of the outcome or capability.  

3.3 Note that a CONOPS/OSD is not an Operational Concept Description (OCD) or CONUSE – see PPA-000950. 

4. APPLICATION/INTERRELATIONSHIP 

4.1 This Data Item Description (DID) contains the format and content preparation instructions for the data product 
generated by the performance of design of a solution to the end-use aspects of requirements and goals relating to an 
enterprise capability. The solution description is at the architectural level of detail, viz the level that defines a concept 
of implementation, the set of system major solution elements and their interfaces (external and internal to the solution), 
the key characteristics of each solution element, and the concept of interoperation of solution elements to satisfy 
solution requirements. The CONOPS/OSD is often used where human-based solution elements are involved. 

4.2 This DID can be used when the capability developer seeks to define and record the conceptual solution to provide a 
capability, and wishes to communicate the operational aspects of the solution to stakeholders.  

4.3 Alternative to the CONOPS/OSD, a System/Subsystem Design Description (SSDD) to DID PPA-003461 may be used. The 
SSDD describes the whole of the architectural (conceptual) design to the whole of the problem definition (not only the 
operational aspects of the problem definition). Thus, the SSDD is of broader scope than the CONOPS/OSD. The content 
of the CONOPS/OSD is subsumed within this broader scope. 

5. PREPARATION GUIDELINES 

5.1 General Instructions 

The term “document” in this DID means data and its medium, regardless of the manner in which the data are recorded. 

continued next page 

6. SOURCE 

© Copyright Project Performance International. This document may be reproduced and distributed without restriction 
except as below provided that all reproductions contain the original copyright statement in the original form and 
location. Derivative works may be produced provided each derivative work contains a copyright statement referring to 
the content in which PPI holds copyright, in a form and in a location no less prominent than the copyright statement on 
the original. Copies and derivative works may not be used for the delivery of training for profit.  Creative Commons 
license CC BY-ND as modified above. 

helping projects succeed… 
www.ppi-int.com 


PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 2 of 6 

5. PREPARATION GUIDELINES continued 

5.2 Content Requirements 

Content requirements begin on the following page.  The numbers shown designate the paragraph numbers to be used 
in the document.  Each such number is understood to have the prefix "5.2" within this DID.  For example, the paragraph 
numbered 1.1 is understood to be paragraph 5.2.1.1 within this DID. 

 

 
 


PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 3 of 6 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

 

1. 
SCOPE 
4 
1.1 
Identification 
4 
1.2 
Background and Intended Use of the System 
4 
1.3 
System Overview 
4 
1.4 
CONOPS/OSD Document Overview 
4 

2. 
APPLICABLE AND REFERENCED DOCUMENTS 
4 
2.1 
Applicable Documents 
4 
2.2 
Other Referenced Documents 
4 

3. 
DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
4 
3.1 
Definitions 
4 
3.2 
Acronyms 
4 
3.3 
Abbreviations 
5 

4. 
SYSTEM-WIDE SOLUTION CONCEPTS 
5 

5. 
SYSTEM OPERATIONAL SOLUTION CONCEPT 
5 
5.1 
Identification of System Elements 
5 
5.2 
Implementation Intentions of System Elements 
5 
5.3 
Overview of Operations 
5 
5.4 
Role of Each Element 
5 
5.5 
System Logical Concept 
5 

6. 
NOTES 
6 

A. 
ANNEXES 
6 

 


PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 4 of 6 

1. SCOPE 

This section should be divided into the following paragraphs. 

1.1 Identification 

This paragraph should contain a full identification of the capability/problem/system to which the CONOPS/OSD 
applies, including, as applicable, identification number(s), title(s), abbreviation(s), and version number(s). Where 
the system to which the CONOPS/OSD applies includes variants of the system, the above information should be 
provided for each variant. 

1.2 Background and Intended Use of the System 

This paragraph should briefly state the intended use of the system to which the CONOPS/OSD applies, relating it 
to any larger system, of which the system which is the subject of the CONOPS/OSD is to form a part. The paragraph 
should describe the general nature of the system, place the CONOPS/OSD in context of the history and future of 
the system, and identify relevant stakeholders, especially intended user(s). 

1.3 System Overview 

This paragraph should summarize the conceptual solution of the system as described in the remainder of the 
CONOPS/OSD. 

1.4 CONOPS/OSD Document Overview 

This paragraph should summarize the purpose and contents of the CONOPS/OSD and should describe any security 
or privacy considerations associated with its use. 

 

2. APPLICABLE AND REFERENCED DOCUMENTS 

This section should list the number, title, revision and date of each document referenced in the CONOPS/OSD. This 
section should also identify the source of each document not available through normal channels. 

2.1 Applicable Documents 

This paragraph should list each document, which is invoked in whole or in part within the CONOPS/OSD as a part 
of the conceptual solution description. 

2.2 Other Referenced Documents 

This paragraph should list each document which is referenced in the CONOPS?osd but which does not comprise a 
part of the conceptual solution description. 

 

3. DEFINITIONS, ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 

This section should be divided into the following paragraphs. 

3.1 Definitions 

This paragraph should list alphabetically and define each word or term used in the CONOPS/OSD for which reliance 
on dictionary definitions or usage in a relevant technical or user community is not appropriate. As a guide, terms 
which are not likely to be in the vocabulary of the intended users of the CONOPS/OSD, terms which have multiple 
dictionary meanings but only a single CONOPS/OSD meaning, specialist technical terms and terms which are used 
with special meanings should be defined in this paragraph. 

Alternatively, this paragraph may specify by name and issue a suitable technical dictionary or other reference 
publication to be used in the interpretation of terms used in the CONOPS/OSD and which meets the criteria above 
for definition of terms. 

3.2 Acronyms 

This section should list alphabetically each acronym used in the document, together with the acronym’s expanded 
meaning. 


PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 5 of 6 

3.3 Abbreviations 

This section should list alphabetically each abbreviation used in the document, together with the abbreviation’s 
expanded meaning, except that abbreviations within the International System (SI) system of units should not be 
listed. 

 

4. SYSTEM-WIDE SOLUTION CONCEPTS 

This section should be divided into paragraphs as needed to present system-wide conceptual solution decisions (if 
any), that is:  

a. conceptual solution decisions affecting the selection and specification of solution elements, and 
b. decisions about the system's behavioral conceptual solution (how the system will behave, from a user’s point 
of view, in meeting its requirements, consistent with but in more detail than the requirements, and ignoring 
internal implementation. 

Examples of system-wide conceptual solution decisions are: 

a. conceptual solution decisions relating to common personnel, hardware, software, interfaces within the 
decision envelope permitted by requirements and as influenced by any goals; 
b. other system-wide conceptual solution decisions made in response to requirement and as influenced by any 
goals, such as selected approaches to providing availability, configurability, flexibility, reliability, safety security 
and sustainability. 

Solution description conventions needed to understand the CONOPS/OSD should also be presented or referenced. 

   

5. SYSTEM OPERATIONAL SOLUTION CONCEPT 

The paragraph titles and numbering below, of 5.1 to 5.5, may be departed from if desired, to better suit the nature 
of the system, provided that the information as specified is presented in a clear and logical way. 

5.1 Identification of System Elements 

This paragraph should identify the solution elements of the system (hardware, software, human, procedural) 
serving a direct operational (use) purpose. Naturally occurring elements used as a part of the solution should be 
included. 

5.2 Implementation Intentions of System Elements 

This paragraph should describe, typically in table format, the implementation intentions for each system element. 
Example implementation intentions are: 

a. Development by company 
b. Development by contractor 
c. 
Existing – owned by company 
d. Existing – to be purchased 
e. Existing – fee for use 
f. 
Existing organization. Procedures will need revision. Staff will need training. 
g. Existing – will need configuration 
h. Minor modification to existing item 
i. 
Naturally occurring. 

5.3 Overview of Operations 

This paragraph should show the static relationships of the elements, especially the “is connected to” relationships, 
with major flows across connections (interfaces) shown.  

5.4 Role of Each Element 

This paragraph should describe for each element in alphabetical order, the role in the overall operational solution 
that the element plays, describing as necessary its interoperation with other elements. 

5.5 System Logical Concept 

This paragraph should, to the degree applicable: 


PPA-004023-8 
 
 
© Copyright Project Performance International (PPI) 2023 
Page 6 of 6 

a. describe at a conceptual level of detail, the functional concept of solution in terms of a set of functions, related 
hierarchically to use-related system functional requirements, such that, at the lowest level(s) of functions in 
the hierarchy, each function is able to be allocated for its performance to a single system element listed in 5.1; 
b. describe the logical sequence and concurrency in which functions are to be performed, together with the logic 
of any conditional relationships between functions; 
c. 
describe the interfaces and associated flows of items (information, physical items, forces, supplies, continuous 
flows of liquids or gasses, etc.) between functions; 
d. associate with each allocatable function the applicable set of key performance  characteristics; 
e. relate allocatable functions to states and modes of the system, where such relationships exist. 

   

6. NOTES 

This section should contain any general information that aids in understanding or using the CONOPS/OSD (e.g. 
background information, evaluation of conceptual solution alternatives, rationale). 

 

A. ANNEXES 

Annexes may be used to provide information published separately for convenience in document maintenance or 
use (e.g., charts, databases). As applicable, each annex should be referenced in the main body of the document 
where the data would normally have been provided. Annexes may be bound or prepared digitally as separate 
documents for ease in use. Annexes should be lettered alphabetically (A, B, etc.). 

Appendices may be used to annexes. Appendices should be numbered numerically (1, 2, etc.). 

 


