SysML v2 

TECHNICAL HIGHLIGHT:
Systems Modeling Language Version 2 
Transition Guidance

JANUARY 2025

Systems Modeling Language (SysML) is the industry standard for creating digital models. With artificial 
intelligence and other technologies emerging, the Object Management Group (OMG), an international 
consortium of model developers, is developing SysML Version 2 (v2) to keep pace with trends. OMG 
expects to release the revised language in 2025. On behalf of the Office of the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSD(R&E)), the SE&A Digital Engineering, Modeling & Simulation 
(DEM&S) team has developed guidance to assist defense acquisition programs to achieve a smooth 
transition from SysML v1 to v2.

Figure 1. Notional Transition from SysML v1 to v2 

Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited. DOPSR Case # 25-T-1041.

❖ OUSD(R&E) SysML V1 TO V2 TRANSITION GUIDANCE 

The National Defense Science and Technology Strategy and DoD Instruction 5000.97, “Digital Engineering,” acknowledge the 
importance of standards in establishing a digital infrastructure. As an industry standard, SysML promotes the effective design of 
digital models that can be used to analyze and verify complex systems. Ensuring a smooth transition from SysML v1 to v2 ensures 
DoD follows current best practice and supports DoD’s overall strategic mission to provide superior capability for the warfighter.

SYSTEMS ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURE

❖ What’s New with SysML V2:

▪
API: SysML v2 introduces an API into the modeling language, allowing for seamless collaboration between engineering 
disciplines and agencies. 

▪
KerML: SysML v2 now uses KerML, a standardized language that makes models machine-readable, ensuring all project 
stakeholders have access to a common, computable understanding of system architecture.

▪
Improved Interoperability: SysML v2 now offers improved interoperability, resulting in seamless data sharing across teams, 
ultimately helping program managers by providing better project visibility, reduced errors, and faster development cycles.


❖ OBJECTIVE

The SysML v2 standard focuses on 3 core elements, the underlying Kernal metaModeL (KerML), modeling semantics and syntax 
in the Systems Modeling Language (SysML),  and the Application Programming Interface (API) and services. In anticipation of this
change the DoD has developed along with the community a set of guidance that can help programs make the transition to SysML 
v2.  This guidance recommends that programs:

• Begin with a strategic plan for their team’s transition.

• Become familiar with SysML v2 textual notation and API. 

• Gain experience with the practice model and conduct a pilot 

Below lists all of the OUSD(R&E) developed SysMLv1 to SysML v2 transition guidance to support defense acquisition programs. 
Government, industry, and tool vendors have been using the guidance to help accelerate transition efforts. 

❖ RESOURCES

SE&A: https://www.cto.mil/sea/

DEM&S: https://www.cto.mil/sea/dems

OMG Wiki: https://www.omgwiki.org/MBSE/doku.php?
id=mbse:sysml_v2_transition

SysML V2 Transition Community of Practice Meeting:
Email: osd-sea@mail.mil| Attn: DEM&S

TECHNICAL HIGHLIGHT:
SysML v2 Transition Guidancecont’d

Figure 2. DoD Transition Guidance Available on OMG Wiki 

Modernizing digital 
infrastructure and 

adhering to standards 

supports DoD’s 

strategic mission to 

provide superior 
capability for the 

warfighter.

Distribution Statement A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited. DOPSR Case # 25-T-1041..

SYSTEMS ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURE

Visit the OMG Wiki Page to get information 
on SysMLv2 Transition Guidance and more!


