 
D I G I TA L 
 E N G I N E E R I N G  	
	
 S T R AT E G Y
D E P A R T M E N T  O F  D E F E N S E
J U N E  2 0 1 8
arrows
wings
Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense 
for Systems Engineering
Washington, D.C.
ii 	
	
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D E P A R T M E N T  O F  D E F E N S E
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
J U N E  2 0 1 8 

Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Systems Engineering
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
Systems Engineering
3030 Defense Pentagon
3C167
Washington, DC 20301-3030
E-mail: osd.atl.asd-re.se@mail.mil
Website: www.acq.osd.mil/se
Distribution Statement A: 
Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited. 
	
	
iii
Foreword 
In the Department of Defense (DoD) National Defense Strategy of 2018, Secretary 
of Defense James Mattis encouraged all of us to adopt new practices to achieve 
greater performance and affordability to meet current and future challenges. 
Without sustained and predictable investment to restore readiness and 
modernize, we will rapidly lose our military advantage, resulting in a Joint Force 
that has legacy systems irrelevant to the defense of our people.  In order to meet 
the National Defense Strategy’s lines of effort, we must modernize our defense 
systems and prioritize speed of delivery to be able to fight and win the wars of 
the future.
One way we can do this is by incorporating the use of digital computing, 
analytical capabilities, and new technologies to conduct engineering in more 
integrated virtual environments to increase customer and vendor engagement, 
improve threat response timelines, foster infusion of technology, reduce cost 
of documentation, and impact sustainment affordability. These comprehensive 
engineering environments will allow DoD and its industry partners to evolve 
designs at the conceptual phase, reducing the need for expensive mock-ups, 
premature design lock, and physical testing. 
This DoD Digital Engineering Strategy outlines the Department’s five strategic 
goals for the digital engineering initiative. The goals promote the use of digital 
representations of systems and components and the use of digital artifacts 
as a technical means of communication across a diverse set of stakeholders. 
The strategy addresses a range of disciplines involved in the acquisition and 
procurement of national defense systems, and it encourages innovation in the way 
we build, test, field, and sustain our national defense systems and how we train 
and shape the workforce to use these practices.  
This strategy is the result of extensive research and collaboration among the 
DoD Components and academic partners, as well as interactions with industry, 
professional societies, and defense acquisition associations. The possibilities these 
digital practices bring arise from years of effort and advancements in technical, 
legal, and social sciences. The practices have demonstrated their usefulness in 
engineering-related tasks and in many areas of DoD operations. 
This strategy describes the “what” necessary to foster the use of digital 
engineering practices. Those implementing the practices must develop the 
“how” — the implementation steps necessary to apply digital engineering in 
each enterprise. The Services should develop corresponding digital engineering 
implementation plans during 2018 to ensure the Department advances this timely 
and imperative effort.
Michael D. Griffin 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
arrows
wings
Michael D. Griffin
Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research 
and Engineering
U.S. Department of 
Defense
iv 	
	
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
Ms. Kristen Baldwin
Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Systems Engineering (DASD(SE))
Mr. Jeff Stanley
Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
Science, Technology, and Engineering, 
Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
Acquisition and Logistics
COL Robert H. Kewley Jr.
Acting Executive Director,
Office of the Chief Systems Engineer
HQDA Assistant Secretary of the Army 
(Acquisition, Logistics and Technology) (ASA(ALT))
Mr. William Bray
Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for 
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation 
(DASN(RDT&E))
	
	
v
“Advancements in computing, modeling, data management, and analytical capabilities offer great 
opportunities for the engineering practice. Applying these tools and methods, we are shifting 
toward a dynamic digital engineering ecosystem. This digital engineering transformation is 
necessary to meet new threats, maintain overmatch, and leverage technology advancements.”
“Digital Engineering is the fundamental component to enable the U.S. Air Force to rapidly 
make informed decisions to facilitate agile acquisition and Rapid fielding of dominant 
weapon systems for the warfighter.”
“Rapidly evolving threats, warfighting concepts, and technologies require us to innovate, 
engineer, and integrate quickly. Authoritative and accessible data, models, and architectures 
must underpin modernization.”
“Digital engineering approaches and methods are a key enabler to delivery of affordable 
capability to the warfighter with speed and lethality. The Department of the Navy has 
proactively embraced digital engineering and believes it is the way we must execute 
business in the 21st century.”
vi 	
	
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
CONTENTS
	
I.	 Introduction........................................................................................................................................ 1	
	 II.	 Purpose................................................................................................................................................ 2	
	 III.	 Vision.................................................................................................................................................... 3	
	 IV.	 Goal Summary...................................................................................................................................4	
	 V.	 Goals and Focus Areas.................................................................................................................. 5
1.	 Formalize the development, integration 
and use of models to inform enterprise 
and program decision making............................................................................................. 5
2.	 Provide an enduring, authoritative 
source of truth............................................................................................................................ 8
3.	 Incorporate technological innovation 
to improve the engineering practice................................................................................12
4.	 Establish a supporting infrastructure 
and environments to perform activities, 
collaborate, and communicate across 
stakeholders...............................................................................................................................15
5.	 Transform the culture and workforce to 
adopt and support digital engineering 
across the lifecycle..................................................................................................................19
	VI.	 Next Steps........................................................................................................................................24
	VII.	 Conclusion........................................................................................................................................25
	
	 Appendix – Summary of Goals and 
	
	 Focus Areas......................................................................................................................................26
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
vii
viii  	
	
viii  	
	
	
	
1
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
1
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
I. INTRODUCTION
T
	he U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) 
requires robust engineering practices 
to develop the weapon systems 
the Nation needs to maintain superiority 
against threats from adversaries 
worldwide. Traditionally, the Department 
has relied on a linear process to develop 
complex systems that serve a range of 
missions and users. Often the acquisition 
engineering processes are document-
intensive and stove-piped, leading to 
extended cycle times with systems that 
are cumbersome to change and sustain. 
The DoD faces the challenge of balancing 
design, delivery, and sustainment of 
complex systems with rapidly changing 
operational and threat environments, 
tight budgets, and aggressive schedules. 
Current acquisition processes and 
engineering methods hinder meeting 
the demands of exponential technology 
growth, complexity, and access to 
information. 
To help ensure continued U.S. 
technological superiority, the Department 
is transforming its engineering practices 
to digital engineering, incorporating 
technological innovations into an 
integrated, digital, model-based approach. 
The Department seeks to advance the 
state of engineering practice to support 
lifecycle activities while shaping the 
culture and workforce to innovate, 
experiment, and work more efficiently. 
Digital technologies have revolutionized 
business across most major industries, 
and our personal life activities. Through 
increased computing speed, storage 
capacity and processing capabilities, 
digital engineering has empowered a 
paradigm shift from from the traditional 
design-build-test methodology to a 
model-analyze-build methodology. This 
approach can enable DoD programs to 
prototype, experiment, and test decisions 
and solutions in a virtual environment 
before they are delivered to the warfighter. 
Digital engineering will require new 
methods, processes, and tools, which 
will change the way the engineering 
community operates; however, this 
shift extends beyond the engineering 
community with an impact on the 
research, requirements, acquisition, 
test, cost, sustainment, and intelligence 
communities. The digital engineering 
transformation offers similar positive 
changes for business operations including 
acquisition practices, legal requirements, 
and contracted activities.
arrows
wings
2  	
	
T
	he DoD Office of the Deputy 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Systems Engineering (ODASD(SE)) 
developed this strategy in cooperation 
with stakeholders across government, 
industry, and academia. The strategy 
is a living document and will evolve to 
support the Department’s continuing 
need to provide critical capability to 
the warfighter as quickly as possible. 
The Department intends to remain 
actively engaged with partners internal 
and external to the DoD, including the 
Defense Industrial Base, to maintain 
communication and alignment on the 
implementation of this strategy.
The strategy is intended to guide 
the planning, development, and 
implementation of the digital engineering 
transformation across the DoD. As the 
DoD Components continue to make 
progress  in digital engineering, this 
document will help align implementation 
efforts across the Department. 
This strategy does not intend to be 
prescriptive. It is designed to foster 
shared vision and ignite timely and 
focused action. ODASD(SE) will work 
with the DoD Components to guide the 
development of Service implementation 
plans, which will provide a roadmap 
and objectives for achieving the goals. 
ODASD(SE) will lead and coordinate 
actions shown in Figure 1.
II.	 PURPOSE
Figure 1: ODASD(SE) Digital Engineering Leadership Role
	
	
3
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
T
	he DoD vision for digital engineering 
is to modernize how the Department 
designs, develops, delivers, operates, 
and sustains systems. DoD defines digital 
engineering as an integrated digital 
approach that uses authoritative sources 
of system data and models as a continuum 
across disciplines to support lifecycle 
activities from concept through disposal. 
DoD’s approach is to securely and safely 
connect people, processes, data, and 
capabilities across an end-to-end digital 
enterprise. This will enable the use of 
models throughout the lifecycle to digitally 
represent the system of interest (i.e., system 
of systems, systems, processes, equipment, 
products, parts) in the virtual world. DoD 
will incorporate technologies such as 
advanced computing, big data analytics, 
artificial intelligence, autonomous 
systems, and robotics to improve the 
engineering practice. 
Digital engineering will enable 
stakeholders to interact with digital 
technologies and solve problems in new 
and ground-breaking ways. Using models 
is not a new concept; however, digital 
engineering emphasizes continuity of 
the use of models across the lifecycle. 
Transitioning to digital engineering 
will address long-standing challenges 
associated with complexity, uncertainty, 
and rapid change in deploying and using 
U.S. defense systems. By providing a 
more agile and responsive development 
environment, digital engineering will 
support engineering excellence and 
provides a foundation to fight and win 
the wars of the future. Expected benefits 
of digital engineering include better 
informed decision making, enhanced 
communication, increased understanding 
of and confidence in the system design, 
and a more efficient engineering process 
(Figure 2).
III. VISION
Figure 2: Digital Engineering Expected Benefits
4  	
	
IV. GOAL SUMMARY
4.	Establish a supporting infrastructure 
and environments to perform 
activities, collaborate, and 
communicate across stakeholders. 
This goal promotes the establishment of 
robust infrastructure and environments 
to support the digital engineering 
goals. It incorporates an information 
technology (IT) infrastructure and 
advanced methods, processes, and 
tools, as well as collaborative trusted 
systems that enforce protection of 
intellectual property, cybersecurity, 
and security classification. 
5.	 Transform the culture and workforce to 
adopt and support digital engineering 
across the lifecycle. 
The final goal incorporates best 
practices of change management 
and strategic communications to 
transform the culture and workforce. 
Focused efforts are needed to lead 
and execute the change, and support 
the organization’s transition to 
digital engineering.
F
	igure 3 illustrates the five goals 
	that make up the digital engineering 	
	strategy. 
1.	 Formalize the development, 
integration, and use of models to 
inform enterprise and program 
decision making. The first goal 
establishes the formal planning, 
development and use of models as an 
integral part of performing engineering 
activities as a continuum across the 
lifecycle. Such ubiquitous use of 
models will result in a continuous 
end-to-end digital representation of 
the system of interest. This will 
support consistent analysis and 
decision making for programs and 
across the enterprise.
2.	Provide an enduring, authoritative 
source of truth. This goal moves the 
primary means of communication from 
documents to digital models and data. 
This enables access, management, 
analysis, use, and distribution of 
information from a common set of 
digital models and data. As a result, 
authorized stakeholders have the 
current, authoritative, and consistent 
information for use over the lifecycle. 
3.	Incorporate technological innovation 
to improve the engineering practice. 
This goal extends beyond the 
traditional model-based approaches 
to incorporate advancements in 
technology and practice. Digital 
engineering approaches also supports 
rapid implementation of innovations 
within a connected digital end-to-end 
enterprise.
Figure 3: Digital Engineering Goals
	
	
5
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
Models can provide a precise and versatile 
representation of a system, phenomenon, 
entity, or process. In early phases of the 
lifecycle, models enable virtual exploration 
of solutions before actually instantiating 
them. Over a solution’s lifecycle, models 
mature and can become useful replicates 
to physical counterparts for virtual testing 
and logistics sustainment support.
This goal focuses on the formalized 
application of modeling to support all 
the system lifecycle phases from concept 
through disposal. Figure 4 represents 
examples of different types of models 
that are developed, integrated, and used 
as the foundation of an authoritative 
source of truth across the lifecycle. Various 
disciplines and domains can concurrently 
operate on different aspects of the system 
in the virtual environment. Instead of 
discarding and redeveloping models, the 
collection of models evolves from one 
phase to the next. As a result, models live 
throughout the life span of the system.
 
1.1	 Formalize the planning for 
models to support engineering 
activities and decision making 
across the lifecycle
DoD organizations will develop formal 
plans for model creation, curation, 
integration, and related program 
and enterprise engineering activities 
throughout the lifecycle. The plans will 
describe how models will be realized in 
a coherent and effective manner as work 
activities are performed, and as analyses 
and decisions are supported.
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
G O A L  1 :
Formalize the Development, Integration, and Use of Models to Inform 
Enterprise and Program Decision Making
Figure 4: Examples of Models Connected 
via the Authoritative Source of Truth
6  	
	
Formally develop plans to digitally 
represent the system of interest
DoD organizations will formally develop 
and implement plans to digitally 
represent the system of interest. This 
planning will establish an approach that 
uses models to enable the orchestration 
of activities, the efficient management 
of work, and the integration of work 
products across enterprises and 
multidisciplinary teams to result in a 
digital representation of the system 
of interest. This planning will set in 
place the formalisms which establish 
the foundational quality standards and 
rules (e.g., syntax, semantics, lexicons, 
standards, etc.) that model development 
will be expected to adhere to.
USS Ford (CVN-78) 
is the first ship to 
be fully designed 
using a full-scale 
three-dimensional 
(3-D) product model. 
During the design process, the 
shipbuilders, with the integration and 
use of 3-D models, found hidden value 
in every square inch of the ship, saving 
the Navy a projected $4 billion in 
ownership costs over the ship’s 
50-year lifespan.
Next Generation Aircraft Carriers – 
USS Ford (CVN-78)
EXAMPLE: Formalize Development, 
Integration and Use of Models (Goal 1)
U . S .  N A V Y
1.2	 Formally develop, integrate, 
and curate models 
DoD organizations will use model 
formalisms to aid in the development, 
integration, and curation of models. 
Formalisms ensure consistency with 
the system and external program 
dependencies. DoD organizations will 
identify and maintain an approach that 
integrates models generated by all 
stakeholders to digitally represent the 
system of interest throughout the lifecycle.
Develop and ensure models are accurate, 
complete, trusted, and reusable
Models will be developed according to 
policy, guidance, standards, and model 
formalisms. The DoD organizations will 
capture and maintain model provenance 
and pedigree in order to establish 
trust, credibility, accuracy, and a basis 
for judging model reuse. Model-based 
reviews, audits, and trust, based on 
validation and verification attributes, are 
essential to effective collaboration and 
the system of interest’s evolution. 
Integrate and curate models across 
disciplines to support cohesive model-
driven lifecycle activities
The collaborative lifecycle efforts will be 
supported by an integrated set of models. 
Models will be constructed to become 
the authoritative source of truth, which 
should include traceability of models 
from concept through disposal. Model 
integration and curation should adhere 
to plans to capture and communicate 
information to decision makers.
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
7
USS Ford (CVN-78)
1.3	 Use models to support 
engineering activities and 
decision making across the 
lifecycle
Models will be used as the basis for 
defining, evaluating, comparing, and 
optimizing alternatives and making 
decisions. The models will span all 
disciplines and will provide a unified 
representation that enables concurrent 
engineering and other program activities.
Use models to communicate, 
collaborate, and perform model-driven 
lifecycle activities
Models are used to answer questions, 
reason about the solution, support 
decisions, and communicate clearly and 
unambiguously at all levels of fidelity and 
across lifecycle activities. Models should 
be used to support full lifecycle activities. 
Exchange of information between 
technical disciplines or organizations 
should take place via model exchanges 
and automated transformations, 
whenever possible. Instructions will be 
prepared in support of collaboration to 
ensure accurate use and operation.
8  	
	
This goal provides the authoritative 
source of truth for stakeholders across 
organizations to access, manage, 
protect, and analyze the models and 
data from Goal 1. The primary means for 
communication moves away from static 
and disconnected artifacts and shifts the 
paradigm to models and data serving 
as the basis for connecting traditionally 
siloed elements and providing an 
integrated information exchange 
throughout the lifecycle. As shown in 
Figure 5, stakeholders will have the 
ability to collaboratively work within and 
through the authoritative source of truth 
using shared knowledge and resources 
across the lifecycle. 
2.1	 Define the authoritative source 
of truth
The authoritative source of truth captures 
the current state and the history of the 
technical baseline. It serves as the central 
reference point for models and data 
across the lifecycle. The authoritative 
source of truth will provide traceability as 
the system of interest evolves, capturing 
historical knowledge, and connecting 
authoritative versions of the models and 
data. Changes made to the authoritative 
source of truth will propagate throughout 
the digital design model to all affected 
systems and functions.  Properly 
maintaining the authoritative source 
of truth will mitigate the risk of using 
inaccurate model data, and support 
effective control of the current and 
historic configuration data files. The goal 
is to enable delivery of the right data to 
the right person for the right use at the 
right time. 
Plan and develop the authoritative 
source of truth
The realization of the authoritative 
source of truth requires up-front planning 
and use of models addressed in Goal 1. 
Setting clear expectations for defining, 
developing, and using the authoritative 
source of truth across disciplines and 
throughout lifecycle is imperative. 
Planning includes determining the data 
needs for acquisition, engineering to 
support decisions, and creating seamless 
integration of authoritative data sources. 
The authoritative source of truth 
facilitates a sharing process across the 
boundaries of engineering disciplines, 
distributed teams, and other functional 
areas. It will provide the structure for 
organizing and integrating disparate 
models and data across the lifecycle. 
In addition, the authoritative source of 
truth will provide the technical elements 
for creating, updating, retrieving, and 
integrating models and data. 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
G O A L  2 :
Provide an Enduring, Authoritative Source of Truth 
	
	
9
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
2.2	Govern the authoritative 
source of truth
Organizations will establish policies and 
procedures to ensure proper use of the 
authoritative source of truth. Governance 
will ensure the models and data are 
formally managed and trusted throughout 
the lifecycle. In addition, stakeholders 
will collect, share, and maintain the 
models and data accurately. Establishing 
standardized procedures is essential 
to maintain the integrity and quality 
of the models and data, and to ensure 
compliance with the organization and 
business rules. Governance processes 
will help stakeholders resolve issues, 
ensure consistency and accuracy of the 
authoritative source of truth, and enable 
stakeholders to make data-driven decisions.
Establish access and controls for the 
authoritative source of truth
Establishing access and controls is 
necessary to ensure authorized users have 
access to the right information at the right 
time. Properly defining access and controls 
for the authoritative source of truth will 
allow an uninterrupted flow of models and 
data across organizational boundaries. 
Data must be readily available to all 
intended recipients, but also protected 
from unauthorized users.  Maintaining 
access and control criteria can ensure 
information will be appropriately created, 
managed, protected, and retained.
Figure 5: Authoritative Source of Truth
10  	
	
Execute governance of the authoritative 
source of truth
An effective and robust governance 
process involves responsibilities at 
various levels. Managing policies, 
procedures, and standards will ensure 
proper governance of the authoritative 
source of truth and enhance data 
quality across the lifecycle. Executing 
governance should result in increased 
stakeholder confidence in the integrity of 
the authoritative source of truth.
2.3	Use the authoritative source of 
truth across the lifecycle
The authoritative source of truth will 
be used to develop, manage, and 
communicate information about systems 
from concept through disposal. As such, 
the authoritative source of truth will 
serve as the primary means to share and 
exchange the models, data, and digital 
artifacts. The authoritative source of truth 
will equip programs with enterprise-wide 
knowledge needed to plan, design, and 
sustain systems.
Use the authoritative source of truth as 
the technical baseline 
Stakeholders should use the authoritative 
source of truth to make informed and 
timely decisions to manage cost, schedule, 
performance, and risks. For example, 
contract deliverables should be traced and 
validated from the authoritative source 
of truth. This will allow stakeholders at 
various levels to respond knowledgeably 
to the development, operation, and 
execution of the system, thereby avoiding 
technical and management barriers to 
mission success.
Use the authoritative source of truth 
to produce digital artifacts, support 
reviews, and inform decisions
As the technical baseline matures, 
preserving the knowledge across 
programs and lifecycle phases is essential. 
Technical reviews can be conducted 
from the authoritative source of truth 
on a continuous basis. Stakeholders will 
generate digital artifacts, representing 
multiple views and various perspectives 
from the authoritative source of truth. 
Digital artifacts provide visibility of 
appropriate information across functional 
domains, disciplines, and organizations. 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
The Army is 
implementing a 
lifecycle approach 
for the extensive and 
complex product 
data required in the 
engineering design, 
acquisition, and sustainment of military 
systems. The Lifecycle Product Data 
Management and enterprise Product 
Data Management (LPDM/ePDM) 
system provides an authoritative 
source of truth that Army will use to 
manage all weapon system and end 
item data throughout the lifecycle.
Lifecycle Product Data Management 
(LPDM) and Enterprise Product Data 
Management (LPDM/ePDM)
EXAMPLE: Provide and Enduring 
Authoritative Source of Truth (Goal 2)
U . S .  A R M Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
11
Collaborate and communicate using the 
authoritative source of truth
The authoritative source of truth will 
enable teams to work collaboratively, 
with access to up-to-date models, 
data, and information, while seamlessly 
integrating their work. As established 
in Goal 1, models serve as a continuum 
across the lifecycle. This paradigm shift 
will fundamentally change the current 
practice of accepting documents to 
accepting models and provides the 
technical underpinnings for acquisition 
domains and functional areas. Users can 
generate various views using a shared 
network of models and data to offer 
coherent digital artifacts, while reducing 
time-consuming effort and rework. As 
a result, stakeholders will be able to 
propose alternative solutions, collaborate 
between teams, and promote reuse and 
increase productivity, while analyzing the 
impact of change. 
•  Information Technology
•  Lifecycle Logistics
•  Production, Quality & Manufacturing
•  Program Management
•  Purchasing
•  Science & Technology 
 Management
•  Test & Evaluation
•  Auditing
•  BusinessCost Estimating
•  Business Financial Management
•  Contracting
•  Engineering
•  Facilities Engineering
•  Industrial Contract Property 
 Management
12  	
	
G O A L  3
Incorporate Technological Innovation to Improve the Engineering Practice
This goal is designed to enable DoD 
organizations to maintain technological 
superiority by innovating rapidly and 
providing access to and use of advanced 
technologies. Building upon the model-
based approaches from Goal 1 and Goal 
2, this goal infuses advancements in 
technology and practice to build an end-
to-end digital enterprise. By connecting our 
stakeholders, processes, capabilities, and 
data digitally, DoD organizations will have 
the ability to analyze, and adapt quickly in 
order to modernize capabilities and make 
more timely and relevant decisions. This 
approach also creates opportunities to 
leverage technologies that learn, adapt, 
and act autonomously. Figure 6 illustrates 
examples that will enable a digitally 
connected enterprise and drive innovation 
to transform the practice of engineering. 
Examples include advanced computing, 
big data analytics, artificial intelligence, 
autonomous systems, robotics, and so on.
3.1	 Establish an end-to-end digital 
engineering enterprise 
DoD’s vision is to have an engineering 
enterprise that connects the digital 
and physical worlds across a system’s 
lifecycle. The end-to-end digital 
enterprise will incorporate a model-
based approach in a digitally connected 
environment enabled by advanced 
technologies to conduct full lifecycle 
activities from concept to disposal. In the 
earlier phases of the lifecycle, the focus 
is on evaluating concepts, engaging the 
user, and identifying tradeoffs using a 
Figure 6: Technological Innovation Examples
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
13
The A-10 aircraft was 
designed in the 1970s 
using 2-D drawings. 
The A-10 Wing 
Replacement Program 
(WRP) infused 3-D 
model-based design 
(MBD). The program developed 
approximately 10,000 unique models 
that required new methods to allow 
for handling and integrating data. A-10 
also adopted a new technology, NLign, 
to map repairs onto the 3-D model. 
The adoption of 3-D MBD and Product 
Lifecycle Management (PLM) allowed 
A-10 to construct the digital thread for 
the sustainment phase of the lifecycle 
and identify the authoritative source 
of truth for A-10 engineering data.
A-10 Thunderbolt II
EXAMPLE: Incorporate Technological 
Innovation (Goal 3)
U . S .  A I R  F O R C E
A-10 Thunderbolt II
digital representation of the system of 
interest.  Later in the lifecycle, the focus is 
on production, delivery and sustainment 
of the end item. The goal is to continually 
evolve the digital representation 
alongside the end item, gaining 
continuous insight and knowledge from 
the operational environment. 
14  	
	
Infuse technological innovations to 
enable the end-to-end digital enterprise
DoD’s strategy is to improve its 
technology insertion processes to support 
cutting-edge technology infusion that 
leverages the marketplace while finding 
high-payoff solutions. Stakeholders should 
consider current and future enterprise 
and program needs when selecting 
technologies to support the digital 
enterprise. DoD will implement rigorous 
processes to support cost-effective 
technology development and selection 
decisions. 
3.2	Use technological innovations to 
improve the digital engineering 
practice 
Advances in data analytics can help gain 
greater insights from existing model data. 
Stakeholders should use technological 
innovations to improve decision making, 
system capabilities, and performance of 
computationally intensive engineering 
activities. Technology advancements 
will also transform how machines 
communicate and collaborate with each 
other and with humans, and will use the 
strengths of both humans and machines 
to improve the engineering practice. 
Make use of data to improve awareness, 
insights, and decision making
There has been an exponential growth 
of data from various formats, data 
structures, and sources. Technological 
advancements in big data and analytics 
now make it possible to not only to help 
warfighters on the battlefield but also to 
make better use of the vast and growing 
amount data across each phase of the 
lifecycle to help inform the lifecycle 
processes. DoD’s vision is to build an 
enterprise capability that securely 
leverages data and analytics to enable 
insights and achieve faster and better 
data-driven decisions. By capturing and 
continuously assessing data as the design 
evolves, potential improvements and 
options can be compared and optimized 
in short periods of time.
Advance human-machine interactions 
Realizing an end-to-end digital enterprise, 
automating tasks and processes, and 
making smarter, faster decisions all 
require the next frontier of technologies 
that transform the way humans and 
machines interact. Advances in artificial 
intelligence have given rise to cognitive 
technologies that are able to perform 
tasks that traditionally required human 
intelligence. Machines are now able to 
build knowledge, continuously learn, 
understand natural language, and reason 
and interact more naturally with human 
beings than traditional systems. DoD’s 
vision expects humans to interact with 
machines to make faster data-driven 
decisions and help exploit data more 
effectively than humans could on their 
own. The DoD will advance human-
machine interactions by developing 
awareness of these technologies, 
evaluating opportunities to pilot them, 
and demonstrating options for creating 
value with them.
 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
	
	
15
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
This goal focuses on building digital 
engineering infrastructures and 
environments to support all of the 
digital engineering goals. Current DoD 
IT infrastructures and environments do 
not fully support digital engineering 
stakeholder needs. They are often 
stove-piped, complex, and difficult to 
manage, control, secure, and support 
because their use varies on a program-
by-program basis. DoD will advance its 
infrastructures and environments toward 
a more consolidated, collaborative 
trusted environment. DoD will provide 
infrastructure solutions at the enterprise 
and program level that support realization 
G O A L  4
Establish a Supporting Infrastructure and Environments to Perform 
Activities, Collaborate, and Communicate Across Stakeholders
of the digital engineering objectives. 
Figure 7 shows core elements of the 
infrastructures and environments 
that will keep pace with technology, 
enhance cybersecurity and intellectual 
property protections, and improve 
information sharing. 
4.1	 Develop, mature, and use digital 
engineering IT infrastructures
Digital engineering IT infrastructures 
include a collection of hardware, software, 
networks, and related equipment. 
They span geographical locations and 
organizations, and they must satisfy 
security requirements. Digital engineering 
Figure 7: Digital Engineering Infrastructure & Environments
16  	
	
IT infrastructures are a crucial enabler 
and foundation for advancing the state of 
the practice. 
Provide secure connected information 
networks to perform digital engineering 
activities
Reliable, available, secure, and connected 
information networks are necessary to 
perform digital engineering activities 
across the lifecycle. The networks must 
include computing infrastructures and 
enterprise services at all classification 
levels that securely facilitate the flow of 
information and the authoritative source 
of truth. The networks help improve 
collaboration, enhance learning, facilitate 
information sharing, and enable data-
driven decision making. 
Provide hardware and software to 
perform digital engineering activities
The DoD will plan, resource, and deploy 
digital engineering hardware and 
software solutions to meet the needs 
of the workforce and associated digital 
engineering activities. The DoD will 
consider modular approaches and a wide 
range of hardware and software solutions 
to provide flexible scalability, sizable 
cost savings, and rapid deployment 
when establishing the digital end-to-end 
enterprise. The DoD, will incorporate 
adoption of commercial cloud platforms, 
technologies, and Service solutions when 
appropriate. 
4.2	Develop, mature, and use digital 
engineering methodologies
Effective use of a model-based enterprise 
requires transforming from a document-
based approach to a digital approach. 
As a result, the DoD will evolve in the 
way engineers work, manage, engineer, 
and deliver solutions. To take advantage 
of technical capabilities, the DoD must 
evolve in the way engineers work, 
manage, engineer, and deliver solutions.  
Develop, mature, and implement 
methods and processes to support 
digital engineering activities across the 
enterprise and lifecycle 
The DoD will support this effort by 
developing, maturing, and implementing 
engineering methods and processes 
across an evolving digital engineering 
infrastructure. This will result in the DoD 
updating engineering processes, manuals, 
and instructions to achieve desired digital 
engineering benefits. At a minimum, 
these new engineering methods should 
incorporate technological innovations, 
authoritative sources of truth, formalized 
modeling, workforce, and cultural 
opportunities to improve quality, 
productivity, and acquisition efficiency. 
Develop, mature, and implement digital 
engineering tools
The DoD will evaluate and identify 
digital engineering tools for stakeholders 
based on current and future needs. 
The tools should be a mix of scalable, 
enterprise-ready solutions that meet 
the requirements of stakeholders across 
disciplines and domains. Stakeholders 
should consider license agreements 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
17
and data exchange requirements when 
selecting tools. DoD’s strategy is to 
focus on standards, data, formats, and 
interfaces between tools rather than 
being constrained to particular tools. 
Key factors for digital engineering tools 
include: visualization, analysis, model 
management, model interoperability, 
workflow, collaboration, and extension/
customization support. Developing, 
maturing, and implementing innovative 
digital engineering tools will help bind 
people and technology in ways that 
increase engineering efficiency.
ERS is a DoD joint program to 
develop an integrated suite of modern 
computational engineering tools 
within an architecture that aligns both 
acquisition and operational business 
processes. The suite includes models, 
simulations and related capabilities, 
and trade space assessment and 
visualization tools. The Navy 
developed more than 19 million ship 
designs using the ERS tools. ERS 
uses cost versus capability analysis to 
determine the affordable capability 
space for a future surface combatant.
Engineered Resilient Systems (ERS)
EXAMPLE: Establish Infrastructure 
and Environments (Goal 4)
J O I N T
18  	
	
4.3	Secure IT infrastructure and 
protect intellectual property
The digital engineering transformation 
relies on the protection of models and 
data classification, availability, and 
integrity. Given the amount of information 
residing in models, the DoD must mitigate 
cyber risks and secure digital engineering 
environments against attacks from 
internal and external threats. The DoD 
and industrial base will ensure intellectual 
property and sensitive information are 
protected, while promoting collaboration 
between industry and government. 
Secure IT infrastructure while facilitating 
realization of digital engineering goals
The DoD will integrate cybersecurity into 
all phases of digital engineering planning 
and execution. Digital engineering 
stakeholders must ensure the protection 
of the IT infrastructure, while facilitating 
the realization of digital engineering 
goals. The DoD will collectively mitigate 
known vulnerabilities that present a high 
risk to DoD networks and data. The DoD 
and industrial base will mitigate the risk 
posed by collaboration and access to the 
vast amounts of information in models. 
Methods, processes, and tools will be 
updated and developed to address the 
unique challenges of collaboration among 
different networks and levels of security. 
Protect intellectual property while using 
models to collaborate throughout a 
program lifecycle
The DoD will update its methods, 
processes, and tools to enable data 
and model exchanges while protecting 
property rights for both vendors and 
for the government. Identification and 
protection of intellectual property is 
an extremely complex challenge that 
government and industry partners must 
address together. Both DoD and its 
industrial partners have the responsibility 
to protect copyrights, trademarks, 
patents, and competition-sensitive 
information while simultaneously 
facilitating the free flow of relevant 
information throughout the lifecycle 
between stakeholders. 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
	
	
19
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
The fifth goal takes a deliberate and 
systematic approach to planning, 
implementing, and supporting the DoD’s 
digital engineering transformation. This 
transformation requires the DoD to 
move beyond the technical aspects to 
address workforce challenges such as the 
people and the culture, which includes 
shared values, beliefs, and behaviors of 
an organization. These norms and beliefs 
fundamentally influence how people 
behave and perform operations. 
G O A L  5
Transform the Culture and Workforce to Adopt and Support Digital 
Engineering Across the Lifecycle
To succeed at implementing digital 
engineering, the DoD needs to make 
a deliberate effort to transform the 
workforce to promote a cultural change.  
Some of these efforts include training, 
education, strategic communication, 
leadership and continuous improvements 
as depicted in Figure 8.
Figure 8: Digital Engineering Culture and Workforce Enablers
20  	
	
5.1	 Improve the digital engineering 
knowledge base
The digital engineering knowledge base 
is evolving at various levels of maturity. 
The DoD documents this knowledge in a 
broad array of standards, web resources, 
and academic and trade literature 
that detail silos of digital engineering 
excellence. A concerted effort is needed 
to continually improve, update, and 
further organize this knowledge base.
Advance digital engineering policy, 
guidance, specifications, and standards 
The DoD uses policy, guidance, 
specifications, and standards to ensure 
consistency and discipline across 
engineering activities. Currently a 
wide range of standards enable digital 
engineering (e.g., modeling languages, 
processes, architecture frameworks), but 
no set of digital engineering standards 
covers the range of models and data 
that must be captured and exchanged 
across disciplines, domains, and phases 
of the lifecycle. As a result, the DoD 
will need to encourage commonality 
in terminology, develop a shared 
understanding of concepts, and ensure 
consistency and rigor in implementing 
digital engineering across engineering 
activities. To identify the gaps, the DoD 
should begin by evaluating current policy, 
guidance, specifications, and standards to 
determine what changes are necessary 
to implement digital engineering.
Streamline contracting, procurement, 
legal, and business practices
The DoD’s procurement practices guide 
and transform behavior and support 
effective performance on contracts. 
The existing processes are paper-based 
and need to transition to a model-
based approach. While a model-based 
approach offers flexibility, automates 
manual tasks, and supports collaboration, 
it will require changes to DoD processes 
for planning, evaluating, awarding, and 
managing procurements post-award. 
For example, digital engineering will 
influence the Request for Proposal (RFP), 
Statement of Work (SOW), Contract 
Data Requirements Lists (CDRL), and any 
accompanying Data Item Descriptions 
(DID). This evolution will require engaging 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
The Naval Air Systems 
Command (NAVAIR) 
Systems Engineering 
(SE) Transformation 
initiative aims 
to modernize 
how systems engineers use new 
technologies and model-based 
approaches to specify, develop, and 
verify weapon systems. Currently, 
NAVAIR efforts include improving 
capabilities in the areas of integrated 
modeling environments, policy and 
process, workforce and culture, 
and experimental pilot projects and 
demonstrations. NAVAIR’s objective 
is to improve throughput and reduce 
cycle time to develop weapon systems.
Systems Engineering Transformation
EXAMPLE: Transform Culture 
and Workforce (Goal 5)
U . S .  N A V Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
21
contracting and legal teams to streamline 
business and contracting practices.
Establish and share best practices 
To help organizations solve challenges 
and institutionalize digital engineering, 
the DoD will advance existing initiatives 
and networks to synchronize information 
sharing across digital engineering 
stakeholders. Best practices should 
be available for reuse or adaptation. 
Sharing information about effective 
courses of action and the lessons learned 
from experiences allows the broader 
community to collaborate and learn 
from each other. This focus area will 
require a strategic, Department-wide 
effort to inform, involve, and mobilize 
the DoD and its partners toward 
capturing, discovering, and implementing 
improvements in digital engineering 
practice. In addition to codifying 
policy, guidance, and standards, it will 
include establishing and sharing best 
practices across the defense acquisition 
community.
5.2	Lead and support digital 
engineering transformation 
efforts
By definition, transformation requires 
management of change. Driving a culture 
of innovation, experimentation, and 
continuous improvement involves shaping 
organizational team and individuals’ 
values, attitudes, and beliefs about the 
transformation. Leaders enable the 
transformation process by encouraging 
and energizing people to contribute and 
grow. Such leaders provide the framework 
for change.  
22  	
	
These leaders seek to engage people to 
accept and embrace changes through 
communicating and executing a vision 
and strategy; building and leveraging a 
wide range of knowledge and innovation; 
and demonstrating and rewarding 
tangible results. 
Communicate and execute the digital 
engineering vision, strategy, and 
implementation 
Digital engineering is a fundamental 
change to the way people work and 
operate. To encourage participation, 
the DoD leaders will build and 
communicate the vision and strategy 
for digital engineering. An effective 
vision and strategy help clarify the 
purpose, direction, and priorities for the 
organization. It is essential to build open 
and frequent communication strategies 
through multiple channels that provide 
awareness and a common understanding 
to stakeholders across disciplines and 
organizations. Leadership should work to 
remove barriers and address resistance 
to change, provide resources, establish 
priorities and key milestones, and define 
roles and responsibilities to enable 
implementation of the digital engineering 
vision and strategy. There should be a 
mechanism for people to ask questions 
and provide feedback.
Build alliances, coalitions, and 
partnerships across government, 
industry, and academia
A wide range of stakeholders are 
developing solutions within various 
aspects of the digital engineering 
enterprise. Tapping into stakeholders’ 
skills, ingenuity, and advancements can 
bring insights and ideas that contribute 
to collectively advancing the state of 
practice. The DoD can use alliances, 
coalitions, and partnerships to co-create 
and deploy concepts to facilitate the 
sharing of information and resources. 
It is important for DoD organizations 
to cultivate and maintain situational 
and enduring collaborations across the 
government, international partners, 
Services, academia, federally funded 
research and development centers 
(FFRDC), and industry. 
Establish accountability to measure, 
foster, demonstrate, and improve 
tangible results across programs and the 
enterprise
Organizations should identify 
leadership teams (e.g., champions, 
sponsors, etc.) that are accountable to 
actively participate in managing and 
implementing the transformation efforts. 
The leadership will initiate broad-based 
action that generates short-term wins as 
well as long-term outcomes. Leadership 
should define metrics and the criteria for 
success, as a means to create incentives, 
monitor, reward, take corrective action, 
and improve results across the enterprise. 
5.3	Build and prepare the workforce
The workforce of the future is geo-
graphically dispersed, multidisciplinary, 
and multigenerational. A new generation 
of engineers will enter the workforce 
and will take the place of subject matter 
experts (SME) that will soon retire. The 
DoD will need the junior engineers to 
operate alongside the SMEs and carry on 
into the future. It has become increasingly 
important to transfer knowledge, 
V.	DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
23
competence, and skills by training and 
educating the workforce at all levels.
Develop knowledge, competence, and 
skills for the workforce
Workforce training and education are 
a critical component to developing the 
knowledge, competence, and skills for 
the workforce to support the digital 
engineering transformation. Through 
training and education of digital 
engineering and related disciplines, the 
organization can disseminate information 
consistently. This is vital to the individual, 
team, and organization as a whole. The 
DoD will need to holistically educate and 
train the workforce in new concepts and 
methods, processes, and tools. 
Ensure active participation and 
engagement across the workforce 
in planning and implementing 
transformation efforts
Training and education are not the only 
driver of organizational culture change. 
The DoD must encourage the application 
of that knowledge through the formation 
of new habits and behaviors. While 
training and education are important, 
“doing” is critical to an organization 
gaining experience and adapting to 
new ways of operating. Engaging 
stakeholders, whether internal or external 
to the organization, allows for active 
participation in deciding, designing, 
and delivering digital capabilities across 
the lifecycle. 
24  	
	
T 
	he ODASD(SE) and the DoD 
Components will collaborate on the 
digital engineering transformation 
through the implementation of this 
Digital Engineering Strategy. Although 
the DoD Components will own their 
digital engineering implementation plans, 
the ODASD(SE) will coordinate efforts 
to ensure the DoD engineering enterprise 
progresses to improve the engineering 
practice. As the DoD Components 
create, share, and execute their 
implementation plans, the ODASD(SE) 
will work to close gaps, eliminate 
duplication, and share best practices. The 
next steps include the following:
1.	 Coordinate DoD Digital 
Engineering Efforts. 
ODASD(SE) will convene a 
digital engineering summit with 
representative leaders from the 
DoD Components to discuss Service 
implementation plans. In addition, 
ODASD(SE) will continue to 
collaborate with the DoD Components 
as part of the Digital Engineering 
Working Group (DEWG). The DEWG 
will address common practices and 
concerns, facilitate information 
exchange and collaboration, align 
technical initiatives, propose policy and 
guidance, and pursue cross-cutting 
issue resolution.
VI. NEXT STEPS
2.	Develop DoD Implementation Plans.
The DoD Components, supported 
by ODASD(SE), will develop digital 
engineering implementation plans 
that show desired outcomes to 
achieve the goals in this Digital 
Engineering Strategy.
3.	Implement Pilot Programs. 
DoD Components will implement a 
number of digital engineering pilot 
programs to identify barriers and 
evaluate tools, processes, and cost 
before full-scale implementation 
of digital engineering in major 
programs. The goal of the digital 
engineering pilots is to learn, measure, 
and optimize digital approaches 
for engineering efficiencies and 
effectiveness. 
4.	Sustain Digital Engineering 
Transformation. 
The DoD will implement policy, 
guidance, training, and continuous 
improvement initiatives to 
institutionalize digital engineering 
across government, industry, and 
academia.
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
	
	
25
VII. CONCLUSION
W
e live in a time of growing 
threats to U.S. interests at 
home and abroad. Our military 
must have the ability to equip the 
warfighter in a timely fashion in the face 
of ever-changing landscapes and threats. 
The current engineering practice limits 
that ability, with stove-piped processes 
and schedule overruns.
Transforming to digital engineering 
will allow for risk taking in a digital 
environment and increased rapid fielding 
of prototypes. Sectors of private industry 
and engineering centers in the DoD 
have embraced this transition, 
implementing digital engineering 
activities to great benefit.
The goals identified in this strategy 
present a plan for DoD to improve its 
engineering capabilities to continue to 
defend the United States and its interests. 
Leaders from across the Department will 
take action to achieve the goals outlined 
in this strategy and hold their programs 
and organizations accountable. Because 
the Department operates multiple 
missions, faces different threats and uses 
a spectrum of technologies, no single 
approach will suffice. Success requires 
collaboration, business and cultural 
change across DoD, with the private 
sector, with U.S. allies and partners, and 
within the evolving future workforce.
26  	
	
GOALS
FOCUS AREAS
Formalize the 
development, 
integration, and 
use of models 
to inform 
enterprise 
and program 
decision making
•	 Formalize the planning for models to support engineering 
activities and decision making across the lifecycle
--
Formally develop plans to digitally represent the system 
of interest
•	 Formally develop, integrate, and curate models
--
Develop and ensure models are accurate, complete, 
trusted, and reusable
--
Integrate and curate models across disciplines to 
support cohesive model-driven lifecycle activities
•	 Use models to support engineering activities and decision 
making across the lifecycle
--
Use models to communicate, collaborate, and perform 
model-driven lifecycle activities
Provide an 
enduring, 
authoritative 
source of truth
•	 Define the authoritative source of truth
--
Plan and develop the authoritative source of truth
•	 Govern the authoritative source of truth
--
Establish access and controls for the authoritative 
source of truth
--
Execute governance of the authoritative source of truth
•	 Use the authoritative source of truth across the lifecycle
--
Use the authoritative source of truth as the technical 
baseline
--
Use the authoritative source of truth to produce digital 
artifacts, support reviews, and inform decisions
--
Collaborate and communicate using the authoritative 
source of truth
Incorporate 
technological 
innovation to 
improve the 
engineering 
practice
•	 Establish an end-to-end digital engineering enterprise
--
Infuse technological innovations to enable the end-to-
end digital enterprise
•	 Use technological innovations to improve the digital 
engineering practice
--
Make use of data to improve awareness, insights and 
decision making
--
Advance human-machine interactions
APPENDIX 1 
DIGITAL ENGINEERING GOALS AND FOCUS AREAS
	
	
27
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
D I G I T A L  E N G I N E E R I N G  S T R A T E G Y
GOALS
FOCUS AREAS
Establish a 
supporting 
infrastructure 
and environments 
to perform 
activities, 
collaborate, and 
communicate 
across 
stakeholders
•	 Develop, mature, and use digital engineering IT infrastructures
--
Provide secure connected information networks to 
perform digital engineering activities
--
Provide hardware and software to perform digital 
engineering activities
•	 Develop, mature, and use digital engineering methodologies
--
Develop, mature, and implement methods and 
processes to support digital engineering activities 
across the enterprise and lifecycle
--
Develop, mature, and implement digital engineering tools
•	 Secure IT infrastructure and protect intellectual property
--
Secure IT infrastructure while facilitating realization of 
digital engineering goals
--
Protect intellectual property while using models to 
collaborate throughout a program lifecycle
Transform the 
culture and 
workforce to 
adopt and 
support digital 
engineering 
across the 
lifecycle
•	 Improve the digital engineering knowledge base
--
Advance digital engineering policy, guidance, 
specifications, and standards
--
Streamline contracting, procurement, legal, and business 
practices
--
Establish and share best practices
•	 Lead and support digital engineering transformation efforts
--
Communicate and execute the digital engineering 
vision, strategy, and implementation
--
Build alliances, coalitions, and partnerships across 
government, industry, and academia
--
Establish accountability to measure, foster, demonstrate, 
and improve tangible results across programs and the 
enterprise
•	 Build and prepare the workforce
--
Develop knowledge, competence, and skills for the 
workforce
--
Ensure active participation and engagement across 
the workforce in planning and implementing 
transformation efforts
 
Department of Defense 
Digital Engineering Strategy
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
Systems Engineering
3030 Defense Pentagon
3C167
Washington, DC 20301-3030
E-mail: osd.atl.asd-re.se@mail.mil
Website: www.acq.osd.mil/se
Distribution Statement A: 
Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.
