2023 - Issue 1   •   3 
CFT FORWARD
GEN James C. McConville
Army Chief of Staff (R)
Ensuring War-Winning
Future Readiness for AMD Forces
“We are getting it done. In the future, we are not going to be 
outgunned, we are not going to be outranged and we are not going 
to be outmaneuvered on the battlefield.”
GEN James C. McConville
Army Chief of Staff (R)
Perspective
While it has always been an exciting time to be an air defender, 
the present day challenges the Army faces in air defense require, 
rapid, persistent transformation as never before. The Army has 
made great strides the last few years in terms of enhancing our 
modernization and readiness efforts across the range of doctrine, 
organization, training, materiel, leadership and education, 
personnel and facilities (DOTMLPF) functions. Technology 
has matured to the point where we are now able to physically 
manifest the vision of integrated air defense pioneers 40 years 
ago were only able to conceptualize.
This is the greatest and most complex modernization of our 
air and missile defense capability since the Cold War, centered on 
connecting sensors, shooters and a common mission command 
system. Ultimately, it is about giving our warfighters capabilities 
sooner and increasing the options available in order to keep pace 
with our adversaries, making their challenges more complex. 
Designing the Army of 2040
The Air & Missile Defense Cross Functional Team focuses on 
transforming our air and missile defense force and developing 
new capabilities supporting the Army modernization priorities. 
Our competitors have been investing in unmanned aircraft 
and missile systems, requiring us to rapidly modernize and 
transform our air and missile defense capabilities. While our 
progress and our efforts have been significant, they are one 
piece of the overall Army Futures Command’s (AFC) focus to 
build the Army of 2030 and design the Army of 2040. AFC is 
transforming the Army to ensure war-winning future readiness. 
Guided by the AFC imperative to design the Army of 2040, we 
are partnering with Army, multi-service, and multinational 
military partners as well as our industry partners to transform 
air and missile defense capabilities to better enable our forces to 

maintain a significant edge over our adversaries 
in the future.
With essential input and feedback from our 
warfighters, we are creating capabilities that will 
remain relevant well into the next decade and 
beyond. The value of Soldier-centered design 
is that it deliberately brings Soldiers into the 
development process in regular and meaningful 
ways. These events provide an opportunity 
for Soldiers who are in formations now, and 
may be on the battlefield tomorrow, to provide 
valuable input to industry representatives, 
testers, researchers and acquisition experts 
on the capabilities the force will need to fight 
and win. Soldier engagements help pinpoint 
overlooked end-user issues and confirm or dispel 
the need for development teams to address real 
or perceived technological challenges. Soldier 
touchpoints inform requirements, facilitate rapid 
iteration of prototypes and ensure the Army is 
meeting Soldiers’ tactical and operational needs.
We are strengthening a legacy of excellence 
that will underpin warfighters’ ability to win 
anytime, anywhere, against any foe. We continue 
to be well supported by our military and industry 
partners from higher headquarters, Army 
Futures Command, our Army Senior Leaders 
and Army Staff/Secretariat. In the trenches, 
we continue to work very closely with Program 
Executive Office Missiles & Space, as well as Army 
Capability Managers, the Rapid Capabilities and 
Critical Technologies Office, and Army Test and 
Evaluation Command. With a common vision 
in mind, we have partnered to develop and 
refine the requirements that allow the Program 
Managers to mature those systems that best 
meet warfighter needs.
Army Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
(AIAMD) 
AIAMD remains our top priority. The IAMD 
Battle Command System (IBCS) is the material 
component of the overall AIAMD system. IBCS 
provides common mission command across 
all Army AMD echelons, improves combat 
identification, provides flexibility in task 
organization, and improves joint integration. 
AIAMD replaces multiple disparate command 
4   •   Air Defense Artillery Journal
and control systems, enabling improved 
coordinated engagements, positive control of 
sensors and weapons, friendly protection, and 
shared situational understanding. IBCS open 
architecture enables the rapid integration of 
both legacy and developmental sensors/shooters, 
providing the force with capabilities to defeat 
emerging threats in a Multi-Domain Operations 
scenario. IBCS completed Initial Operational 
Test & Evaluation in 1st Quarter FY23 that will 
inform the Initial Operational Capability and the 
Full-Rate Production decisions.  Additionally, 
IBCS participated in Project Convergence 22 with 
U.S., other service, and multinational partners.
Lower-Tier Air and Missile Defense Sensor 
(LTAMDS)
LTAMDS delivers sensor capability to counter 
advanced threats and take full advantage of the 
Patriot Missile Segment Enhancement (MSE) 
capability. LTAMDS serves as a sensor node on 
the Integrated Air and Missile Defense (IAMD) 
Battle Command System (IBCS) network. LTAMDS 
provides a significant increase in range and 
coverage capability over current Patriot Radar 
The development of a new 500kW large tactical 
power system is an integral part of the LTAMDS 
solution in order to enable it to meet full radar 
performance requirements. In 2023, initial 
prototypes were delivered to the test range (White 
Sands Missile Range) for contractor testing and 
the U.S. Government is conducting a technical 
analysis on the test data. The LTAMDS program 
is on path to meet legislative requirements.
Maneuver Short-Range Air Defense 
(M-SHORAD) 
Our Army’s M-SHORAD development efforts 
have continued on schedule and are producing 
results. As a system, M-SHORAD supports 
warfighters at the tactical level. It provides air 
protection to maneuver formations to counter a 
wide range of air threats, from unmanned aerial 
systems to rotary- and fixed-wing aircraft. 
M-SHORAD is about developing challenges or 
complexities for our adversaries, while creating 
options for tactical and operational commanders 
in a ground fight. As of this publication date, 
we have fielded all or most of a full battalion

2023 - Issue 1   •   5 
of M-SHORAD to 5th Battalion, 4th Air Defense 
Artillery Regiment in Germany. This unit has 
been putting a platoon of vehicles through its 
paces the past two years and is ready to complete 
its fielding this year. Directed Energy M-SHORAD 
(Increment 2 prototypes are being fielded in 
2Q-3Q FY23 to 4-60 ADA at Fort Sill (and Yuma 
Proving Ground) for testing and training. 
Indirect Fire Protection Capability (IFPC) 
Our Enduring IFPC system provides the 
capability to defend fixed and semi-fixed assets 
against sub-sonic cruise missile and UAS threats, 
with a residual capability against fixed and rotary 
wing aircraft. The system provides 360-degree 
protection to support and protect maneuver 
formations and the ability to simultaneously 
engage threats arriving from different azimuths. 
The IFPC system fills the gaps between 
tactical short-range air defense and 
strategic air and missile defense 
such as the Patriot and the 
Terminal High Altitude Area 
Defense System. In 2022, the 
first Iron Dome battery shipped 
to Joint Base Lewis-McChord. We 
anticipate the initial fielding of 
Enduring IFPC (Increment 2) in 
2023. The enduring IFPC program 
will be compatible with the Army’s 
Integrated Battle Command System 
(IBCS) and the Sentinel Radar. 
Counter-small Unmanned Aerial Systems 
(C-sUAS)
In 2022, C-sUAS became part of our AMD 
portfolio our portfolio as a fifth signature 
effort. Our competitors have invested heavily 
in unmanned aircraft, so U.S. forces require 
capabilities to perform C-sUAS missions to 
deny threat sUAS (groups 1-3) the ability to 
detect, surveil, target, attack, and disrupt U.S. 
forces across all domains. C-sUAS is a combined 
arms requirement requiring combinations 
of technologies and TTPs, developed and 
refined through experimentation, analysis, 
and collaboration. Our capability development 
efforts focus on providing a networked, scalable, 
and tailorable suite of capabilities to the force 
commander (for mounted, dismounted, fixed and 
semi-fixed operations) that support a layered 
defense and incorporate active, passive, and 
deep sensing. Such capabilities enhance the 
ability of our warfighters to integrate C-sUAS 
capabilities with kinetic and electronic warfare 
to successfully operate across the full range of 
military operations. In 2022, the CFT developed 
a near-term funding strategy prioritization 
plan to support research, development, test and 
evaluation requirements for the (fiscal) years 
2023-2025.
Way Ahead
Our efforts to transform air and missile defense 
capabilities today and in the future are a critical 
piece of the larger Army transformation efforts 
to build the Army of 2030 while designing the 
Army of 2040. The solution set requires 
that we develop and provide a tiered 
and layered mix of capabilities 
that enables our warfighters to 
defeat the complex threats posed 
by our adversaries. We must 
revisit longstanding doctrinal 
and organizational constructs 
which may be rendered irrelevant 
by new capabilities and rigorous 
analysis. Likewise, we must 
aggressively continue to explore 
new opportunities that are created by 
the promise of modernized equipment as 
a part of the data centric joint force. There is 
no silver bullet solution to building this air and 
missile defense capability for our forces. It is a 
challenging, demanding problem set that requires 
keen minds, new ways of thinking, collaboration, 
and a warfighter focus. I encourage you to seek 
out opportunities to participate in this tough but 
rewarding challenge to transforming YOUR air 
and missile defense force! 
Five of our systems mentioned above—
AIAMD, M-SHORAD, DE M-SHORAD, IFPC and 
LTAMDS-- represent the air and missile defense 
community’s significant contribution to “24 in 
‘23”, the Army’s vision to get 24 systems into 
the hands of Soldiers in 2023. It is truly a great 
time to be an air defender in our Army!

