 
 
 
May 2024 
Final Report 
                        CLEARED 
For Open Publication 
 
 
Department of Defense 
OFFICE OF PREPUBLICATION AND SECURITY REVIEW 
Aug 16, 2024
 
 
This report is a product of the Defense Science Board (DSB). The DSB is a Federal Advisory 
Committee established to provide independent advice to the Secretary of Defense. Statements, 
opinions, conclusions, and recommendations in this report do not necessarily represent the 
official position of the Department of Defense. 
 
 
 
 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
3140 DEFENSE PENTAGON 
WASHINGTON DC 20301-3140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFENSE SCIENCE 
BOARD 
MEMORANDUM FOR UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND 
ENGINEERING 
SUBJECT:  
Defense Science Board (DSB) Final Report on Digital Engineering Capability to 
Automate Testing and Evaluation 
I am pleased to forward the final report of the DSB Task Force on Digital Engineering 
Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation, which was co-chaired by Dr. Robert Grossman 
and Dr. Mark Maybury. A generational shift in the practice of engineering is underway, with 
ramifications not only for those who design and build, but also mission planners, testers, 
maintainers, and users of equipment ranging from personal devices to the largest systems fielded 
by the U.S. military.  
High-quality models, high-powered simulation, tool interconnectivity, and many other factors 
enable “digital engineering,” a practice that not only relies upon these capabilities, but also 
extends throughout the system life cycle to consider how it will meet needs and be sustained over 
time. Although synonymous in some minds with the creation of “digital twins” that are one-to-
one paired with physical systems, digital engineering represents a much more fundamental 
reimagining of the engineering process to interlink and overlap phases of development and 
testing.  
This shift is neither new nor unexpected, but it is progressing at a pace that the Department must 
account for and is striving to do so. Although the Department may not choose to digitally 
engineer every system, fully traditional engineering will become more difficult over time due to 
shifting expertise in the workforce and contractor capabilities.  
Given this evolution in capabilities and expectations, the Department must be prepared to exist 
within a broader digital engineering ecosystem. Leaders must understand how and when to apply 
it in their programs. Acquirers must know which deliverables to require and what contracting 
language to employ. Planners must convey their needs, and maintainers must know what 
information they can rely upon. Educating the workforce on what can be accomplished via 
digital engineering is as important as developing its capabilities, giving a clear understanding of 
costs and benefits at every stage.  
I fully endorse all the study’s recommendations and urge their careful consideration and 
adoption. Understanding and applying digital engineering will ensure that the next generation of 
systems serve warfighters as ably as possible. 
 
 
Dr. Eric D. Evans 
Chair, Defense Science Board 
 
 
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK
 
 
 
 OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
3140 DEFENSE PENTAGON 
WASHINGTON DC 20301-3140 
 
 
 
 
 
DEFENSE SCIENCE 
BOARD 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE CHAIR, DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
SUBJECT:  
Report of the Defense Science Board (DSB) Task Force on Digital Engineering 
Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Attached is the final report of the congressionally directed DSB Task Force on Digital Engineering 
Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation. Properly employed, Digital Engineering (DE) has 
demonstrated cost, schedule, performance, agility and evolvability benefits and is applicable not only 
at multiple levels of systems (from components to systems of systems) but also across the full life 
cycle from requirements to design, to manufacturing, to test and evaluation, to operations, and even 
to sustainment. Moreover, DE can help shape and reduce physical test and evaluation that can be 
time intensive, expensive, dangerous, or revelatory to adversaries. However, as the report 
illuminates, DE is no substitute for rigorous systems engineering, sound program management, 
common sense, and real-world testing and evaluation (T&E) of complex phenomena. Moreover, DE 
introduces new challenges including increased digital attack surfaces, dependency on digital 
expertise and commercial tools, and upfront investment.  
In reviewing case studies in the defense and commercial sectors, the Task Force found many 
examples across domains, missions, and life cycle where DE offered significant benefits in programs 
ranging from aircraft carriers and major DoD platforms to logistics systems; however, these benefits 
did not come without cost. Developing models at a useful level of fidelity requires modern tools, a 
workforce with specialized knowledge, and digitally evolved acquisition and contract processes. 
While the benefits of investment will accrue over time for systems that are made in large quantities 
or must be maintained over the course of decades, other programs may not be suited for DE at the 
same level due to cost, security, or complexity.  
Asking how, where, and when to apply DE is necessary for any portfolio or program manager, but 
the support afforded to them is often insufficient. DoD must employ more sophisticated assessment 
to guide DE applicability; provide data, simulations, model repositories, and tools that enable reuse, 
accelerate speed, and reduce cost; establish and promulgate best practices for programs; and upskill 
talent and infuse expert DE experience across all disciplines and functions. As DE is not simply 
engineering with digital tools but is instead a transformation of fundamental processes enabled by 
interconnectivity, the policy frameworks surrounding digitally engineered programs must also be 
open to change. 
Contributions detailed in the study include a set of DE case studies across government, FFRDCs, and 
commercial entities with attendant benefits and challenges; a prosed standards based DE 
infrastructure and open systems DE architectural framework to accelerate progress; a research plan to 
address DE gaps in the near, mid, and far term; a DE maturity model for assessing and guiding 
organizational and process development; a DE skills development focus; and a practical DE checklist 
for portfolios and programs.  
 
 
Dr. Robert Grossman  
 
 
 
Dr. Mark Maybury 
Co-chair 
 
 
 
 
 
Co-chair
 
 
THIS PAGE LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Table of Contents [i] 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Table of Contents 
Executive Summary ....................................................................................................................................... 1 
1. Introduction: “Imagine If…”.................................................................................................................... 1 
2. An Overview of Digital Engineering ........................................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Definitions ..................................................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. DE/MBSE Across the Product Life Cycle and System Hierarchy ................................................... 4 
2.3. Digital Engineering Ecosystems .................................................................................................... 5 
2.4. Authoritative Source of Truth ....................................................................................................... 5 
2.5. Digital Twins .................................................................................................................................. 6 
2.6. Towards MBSE Metrics and a Digital Engineering Maturity Model ............................................. 7 
2.7. Finding for Quantitative Evidence and Capability Maturity ......................................................... 9 
2.8. Benefits and Limits of Digital Engineering .................................................................................... 9 
2.9. DevOps for Automating T&E ...................................................................................................... 12 
2.10. Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A) ..................................................................... 12 
2.11. Summary of Current State of Digital Engineering ...................................................................... 13 
3. Digital Engineering Case Studies .......................................................................................................... 14 
3.1. Navy Ford-Class Aircraft Carrier ................................................................................................. 14 
3.2. Air Force T-7A Red Wing Training Aircraft .................................................................................. 15 
3.3. Nuclear Power Design at Idaho National Laboratory ................................................................. 16 
3.4. Amazon Web Services IoT TwinMaker ....................................................................................... 17 
3.5. Digital Engineering for Sustainment ........................................................................................... 18 
3.6. Digital Engineering at SpaceX ..................................................................................................... 19 
3.7. Summary of Lessons Learned ..................................................................................................... 21 
3.8. Findings: Case Studies ................................................................................................................ 22 
4. Digital Acquisition in DoD ..................................................................................................................... 23 
4.1. Progress in Policy ........................................................................................................................ 23 
4.2. Progress in Standards ................................................................................................................. 23 
4.3. Insufficient DE Infrastructure and Standards Investment .......................................................... 23 
4.4. Need for Increased DE Knowledge Sharing ................................................................................ 24 
4.5. Need for DE Contractual Evolution ............................................................................................. 24 
4.6. Assessment of OSD Response to FY 2020 NDAA Section 231(a) through (c) ............................. 24 
4.7. Findings: Digital Acquisition ........................................................................................................ 25 
5. Digital Engineering in DoD .................................................................................................................... 26 
5.1. Trade-Offs Applying Digital Engineering to Complex Projects ................................................... 26 
5.2. Lack of a Common, Open Reference Architecture ..................................................................... 26 
5.3. Impediments for Sharing the Information and Artifacts Required for Digital Engineering ....... 27 
5.4. New Attack Surfaces Created by Digital Engineering ................................................................. 28 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Table of Contents [ii] 
5.5. Research in DE is Needed in Selected Areas............................................................................... 29 
5.6. Trade-offs Required for Effective Digital Engineering ................................................................ 29 
5.7. Continued Need for Real World Test and Evaluation ................................................................. 30 
5.8. Findings: Digital Engineering ...................................................................................................... 30 
6. Digital Engineering Workforce Challenges for DoD .............................................................................. 32 
6.1. Progress in DE Knowledge and Knowledge Sharing ................................................................... 32 
6.2. Need for DE Workforce Development ........................................................................................ 32 
6.3. Findings: DE Workforce .............................................................................................................. 35 
7. Recommendations................................................................................................................................ 36 
7.1. Recommendation 1: Develop DoD DE Reference Architecture and DE Infrastructure .............. 36 
7.2. Recommendation 2: Accelerate Digitally Enabled Acquisition .................................................. 36 
7.3. Recommendation 3: Accelerate Virtual Testing and Reuse of Test Data ................................... 37 
7.4. Recommendation 4: Invest in DE Research and Development .................................................. 37 
7.5. Recommendation 5: Develop Workforce DE Skills ..................................................................... 39 
8. Summary............................................................................................................................................... 40 
Appendix A: Terms of Reference .............................................................................................................. A-1 
Appendix B: Task Force Membership ........................................................................................................ B-1 
Appendix C: Digital Engineering Checklist for Programs and Portfolios .................................................... C-1 
Appendix D: Mapping of Findings and Recommendations ....................................................................... D-1 
Appendix E: Briefings Received .................................................................................................................. E-1 
Appendix F: Glossary .................................................................................................................................. F-1 
Appendix G: Acronym List ......................................................................................................................... G-1 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Executive Summary [Ex-1] 
Executive Summary 
The Defense Science Board (DSB) Task Force on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and 
Evaluation was charged with investigating the current state of, and future potential for, digital 
engineering (DE) within the Department of Defense (DoD). Through an analysis of digital engineering use 
in both defense and commercial industries, the Task Force found that digital engineering, when properly 
applied, can improve cost, schedule, and performance of complex projects and programs. However, DE 
is not a panacea for ill-formed acquisition strategies, poorly executed systems engineering, overly 
optimistic cost and schedule predictions, or contractor compliance issues. Moreover, oversight of DE 
processes and products must be performed by technically qualified personnel to achieve desired results. 
While progress has been made in developing DoD digital acquisition policies and processes, insufficient 
and/or inconsistent architectures, standards, shared digital infrastructure, and intellectual property 
rights impede realization of Department-wide benefits. In terms of engineering, the lack of shared and 
interoperable reference architectures, standards, test data, models, and digital infrastructure and tools 
for digital engineering increases cost, lengthens schedules, and introduces unnecessary risks for 
programs. Likewise, increased use of digital engineering expands attack surfaces and creates potential 
vulnerabilities that must be protected. This includes protecting all associated data, models, tools, and 
infrastructure from hostile actors. Decision makers and developers need to ensure data and models are 
appropriately protected, verified, and validated to manage the risk of loss or misapplication. Existing 
gaps in high-performance computing and multiscale modeling and simulation (M&S), verification and 
validation (V&V), and generative artificial intelligence (GAI) modeling impede progress on creating 
increasingly complex, adaptive, reliable, and resilient digital models. Finally, despite the importance of a 
skilled workforce, there are not enough training opportunities in digital acquisition processes or DE 
methods and tools (e.g., model-based acquisition, model-based systems engineering (MBSE)) for all 
functional areas, including engineers, analysts, program managers, testers and evaluators, contract 
managers, operators, maintainers, and most importantly leaders.  
The Task Force recognizes that real-world testing and evaluation is still needed when models do not 
provide necessary fidelity, when models are not sufficiently mature, in complex and contested 
environments (e.g., stealth, electronic warfare), when complexities and interdependencies are 
insufficiently understood (e.g., human behavior, autonomous systems), and when the investment 
required for digital test and evaluation (T&E) exceeds expected benefits. The Task Force noted multiple 
challenges with adopting DE, including required up-front investments, insufficient standards, limited 
expertise and training, insufficient acquisition and contracting support, and cultural biases against digital 
engineering.  
The Task Force principally recommends that the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) and the 
Military Services should invest in DE architectures and infrastructure at the appropriate level of detail 
for their intended applications. Each Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), in close coordination with the 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment (OUSD(A&S)), Office of the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSD(R&E)), and Director, Operational Test 
and Evaluation (DOT&E) should also invest in a DE infrastructure and incorporate rigorous digital 
engineering at levels where it maximizes current benefits and future digital artifact reuse. This needs to 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Executive Summary [Ex-2] 
be resourced as a critical piece of infrastructure; it should not be left to programs or projects to fund out 
of resources intended for their own development effort. Essential actions include developing a 
“Reference Architecture” for DoD digital engineering implementation in each acquisition pathway and 
developing a concept of operations (CONOPS) that supports implementation of an exemplar reference 
architecture for the DoD DE ecosystem. This reference architecture and CONOPS will leverage various 
ongoing efforts across the Department and related entities. Service Acquisition Workforce Directors 
must also develop a government workforce fluent in DE techniques appropriate to their activities, both 
to oversee system development and to perform government life-cycle functions for the full spectrum of 
DoD activities. USD(A&S) should adapt the acquisition process and contractual milestones to include 
practical application of digital engineering, requiring digital deliverables derived from the contractor’s 
digital core and using digital artifacts, analytics, and tools to inform decision making. This includes 
maximizing the use of virtual techniques in test and evaluation, validated by selective, real-world tests 
and measurements. OUSD(R&E) should fund the research community to accelerate DE science and 
technology to close critical gaps. MBSE should be enabled across the full life cycle, and OUSD(A&S) 
should change contracts to require a continuum of MBSE from development to operations and 
sustainment, conducted in such a way as to guard against interference.  
As threats shift and new capabilities emerge, digital engineering is an important component of the 
agility needed to be responsive. In summary, digital engineering has the potential to be a critical enabler 
to deliver sustainable systems superiority in addition to cost, schedule, and performance benefits, but 
only so long as it is thoughtfully implemented and reliably supported.  
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[1] 
1. Introduction: “Imagine If…” 
The future use of digital engineering (DE) is exciting and powerful. Imagine if every location, object, 
person, and process had a digital twin that mirrored its real-world status as shown in Figure 1. Analysts 
could predict and prescribe actions based on collected data and continuously updated models that are 
machine-learned and reality-validated. Acquirers could anticipate and govern systems at multiple scales, 
including total life-cycle costs, schedule, and performance to guide transformational outcomes. Testers 
and evaluators could be more 
accurate and precise, with risk 
identified in advance and used to 
inform focused tests. These 
specialists would be able to identify 
and validate operationally useful 
models, transitioning from the 
current use of a few general models 
toward a large number of models 
used for specific purposes. Future 
acquirers could create threads of 
reasoning across multiple functional 
domains to enable the Department of 
Defense (DoD) to rethink concept of 
operations (CONOPS), increasing 
efficiency and effectiveness. 
Information about and from systems 
fielded could be reused in future 
development. Engineers could 
generatively design the future, 
rapidly modeling complex systems 
(materials, biological, cognitive, social, 
medical, etc.) to create sustainable, scalable, 
resilient solutions for all missions and functions (including use of 3D machine readable maps with 3D 
machine readable resolution). Manufacturers could accelerate production of affordable, interoperable, 
and impactful solutions. Warfighters could train virtually at any time or place against past, current, and 
future threats to affordably reskill and upskill with fielded systems. Digital engineering could be used to 
develop doctrine for broader strategy and campaign planning, including training tailored for missions, 
with digital engineering employed to identify new vulnerabilities and attack vectors. Finally, model-
based forecasting could enable sustainers to preposition capabilities, materiel, and services to ensure 
sustainable, continuous operations in future conflicts. 
This future perspective reveals how digital engineering will introduce new opportunities and challenges 
across the full spectrum of defense systems and environments. Its significance has been reinforced by 
many studies within the Department, including a recently completed review by the Army Science Board, 
and has been recognized by other government bodies, including Congress. Section 231(f) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2020, Public Law 116-92, signed on December 20, 
Imagine if… 
every location, 
thing, person, 
process had a 
digital twin 
 
Figure 1. Digital Engineering Vision 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[2] 
2019, directed the Defense Science Board (DSB) to complete an independent assessment of the progress 
made by the Secretary of Defense in implementing Sections 231(a) through (c) of the FY 2020 NDAA, 
which focused on the application of digital engineering to test and evaluation (T&E). Section 231 of the 
FY2020 NDAA was later supplemented by Section 836 of the FY 2021 NDAA, which required broader 
implementation of digital engineering throughout the acquisition process for both programs and 
portfolios. Section 231(f) further required the results of the DSB assessment to be provided to the 
Congressional Defense Committees. This report captures the findings and recommendations from the 
DSB Task Force.  
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[3] 
2. An Overview of Digital Engineering 
2.1. Definitions  
Digital engineering is an emerging field with various definitions. One definition, adapted in part from 
Idaho National Laboratory (INL), is:1 
Digital engineering is an approach to the design of a complex system across its entire life cycle 
that uses models and data instead of documents, integrates data across models, and enables 
the exchange of digital artifacts from an authoritative source of truth enabling the reduction of 
project costs and the improvement of schedules. 
The Defense Acquisition University (DAU) Glossary defines digital engineering as “an integrated digital 
approach that uses authoritative sources of systems’ data and models as a continuum across disciplines 
to support life-cycle activities from concept through disposal.”2  
Figure 2 contrasts the traditional, paper-based waterfall engineering process with model-based iterative 
digital engineering, in which models shared across the life cycle enable more collaborative, rapid, and 
agile systems engineering.  
 
Figure 2. The Transition to Model-Based Systems Engineering 
A 2021 MITRE report on digital engineering fundamentals described DE as: 
Digital engineering is an integrated digital approach using authoritative sources of system data 
and models as a continuum throughout the development and life of a system. Digital 
engineering updates traditional systems engineering practices to take advantage of 
computational technology, modeling, analytics, and data sciences.3 
 
1 “Digital Engineering,” Idaho National Laboratory, July 17, 2023, https://inl.gov/digital-engineering/. 
2 “Defense Acquisition Glossary,” DAU, http://www.dau.edu/glossary/Pages/Glossary.aspx. 
3 Kenneth J. Laskey Ph.D., Martha L. Farinacci, and Omar C. Diaz D.C.S., “Digital Engineering Fundamentals: A 
Common Basis for Digital Engineering Discussions,” MITRE, September 27, 2021, https://www.mitre.org/news-
insights/publication/digital-engineering-fundamentals-common-basis. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[4] 
These definitions all imply a change in practice from the written documentation to digital specifications 
that can be used computationally, which forms the groundwork for model-based systems engineering. 
As defined by the International Council on Systems Engineering (INCOSE), model-based systems 
engineering (MBSE) is the “formalized application of modeling to support system requirements, design, 
analysis, [and] verification and validation [V&V] activities beginning in the conceptual design phase and 
continuing throughout development and later life-cycle phases.” As illustrated in Figure 2, MBSE is a 
continuum building upon systems engineering principles that transitions from unstructured document-
centric engineering to formalized data- and model-driven characterization of systems of systems at 
multiple levels of abstraction. This characterization ranges from high-level requirements and mission 
analysis to detailed hardware/software subsystems that capture structure, interfaces, and behavior as it 
evolves through the life cycle, incorporating stakeholder requirements and use case development, 
systems of system interactions, dependencies, and schedule breakdowns. Appendix F provides 
additional terms and definitions.  
DE and MBSE change the way engineering, acquisition, T&E, and operations and management (O&M) 
are done; when appropriately used, DE reduces costs, improves schedules, and increases flexibility. 
Achieving these benefits requires a workforce with specialized skills such as creating and evaluating 
detailed models, performing simulations to answer specific engineering questions, evaluating 
uncertainty within those models and simulations, and translating them across tools and platforms. 
2.2. DE/MBSE Across the Product Life Cycle and System Hierarchy 
With digital engineering and model-based systems engineering, there are two hierarchies across which 
data and models are exchanged: 
• 
System and mission hierarchy from components, to systems, to systems of systems, to mission 
threads, to mission outcomes, and 
• 
Life cycle of a system from requirements to specifications, to design, to development, to testing and 
V&V, to manufacturing, to operations, to maintenance. 
These dimensions are illustrated in Figure 3. The term continuum is commonly used in digital 
engineering and MBSE to describe how data and models are exchanged throughout these two 
dimensions, as in “model-based continuum” or as in “continuum throughout the development and life 
of a system” within the INCOSE definition of MBSE. 
Another commonly used term is traceability, which describes the degree to which a relationship can be 
established between two or more products of the development process, especially products having a 
predecessor-successor or entity-sub-entity relationship to one another. 
DE and MBSE create value across the product life cycle by ensuring digital continuity and traceability 
across multiple data streams and processes to provide insights to stakeholders for decision making.  
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[5] 
Figure 3. Digital Engineering Across Systems Verification & Validation (V&V)  
and Product/System Life Cycle 
2.3. Digital Engineering Ecosystems 
The software infrastructure necessary to support digital engineering is diverse, depends in part on the 
domain, and is known by a variety of names including the digital engineering ecosystem (DEE), DE 
infrastructure, integrated development environment, and the digital environment. This report uses the 
term DE ecosystem.  
The DAU Glossary defines a DEE as “the interconnected infrastructure, environment, and methodology 
(process, methods, and tools) used to store, access, analyze, and visualize evolving systems' data and 
models to address the needs of the stakeholders.”4 A successful DE ecosystem: i) spans multiple 
disciplines, domains, tools, and providers; ii) leverages appropriate formal, informal, and emerging 
standards; iii) provides common access to data, including test data, simulation data, model data, etc.; iv) 
provides common access to models; and v) supports traceability. 
A well-accepted approach to building DEEs is to use a Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA) 5 that 
relies on RESTful APIs, RPCs, and other widely accepted protocols. 
2.4. Authoritative Source of Truth 
The establishment of what digital engineering calls an authoritative source of truth (ASOT) is essential 
for digital engineering to be used across the life cycle of a system. As discussed in the 2018 DoD Digital 
Engineering Strategy,6 and as seen in use, the ASOT “captures the current state and the history of the 
technical baseline… Properly maintained, the ASOT will mitigate the risk of using inaccurate model 
data.” It provides traceability as the system evolves, contains current information about the system, and 
supports effective control of the baseline. As with all computational elements, the ASOT must be 
 
4 “Defense Acquisition Glossary,” DAU, https://www.dau.edu/glossary/digital-engineering-ecosystem.  
5 “Modular Open Systems Approach – DoD Research & Engineering, ...,” USD(R&E) System Engineering and 
Architecture, accessed January 30, 2024, https://www.cto.mil/sea/mosa/. 
6 “DoD Digital Engineering Strategy,” USD(R&E) ASD(MC), Mission Capabilities, https://ac.cto.mil/wp-
content/uploads/2019/06/2018-Digital-Engineering-Strategy_Approved_PrintVersion.pdf. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[6] 
designed to contain all data necessary for the tasks that it supports. It must be flexible enough to evolve, 
both in content and size, and must be readily available for the activities and practitioners who use and 
produce its contents. 
A complex system with multiple domains, a hierarchical structure, and components across the product 
life cycle has multiple ASOTs by necessity. Each of these different ASOTs carries the burden to host 
persistent traceability records, histories of change, versions of tools, workflows, practices, data, and 
contexts. At the same time, the system as a whole must federate information across these ASOTs 
without corrupting any of them. One solution the Task Force found to this challenge is establishing 
federated data support and frameworks for local sub-versioning.  
2.5. Digital Twins  
A digital twin is a virtual representation of a real-world object, being, or system that can be continuously 
updated with data from its physical counterpart. More than just a descriptive representation (e.g., a 
SysML model), it is typically a multi-physics, multiscale modeling and simulation (M&S) of a systems 
modeling language (SysML) including its behaviors across multiple conditions and operating 
environments. Digital twins, like any model, can be developed at different levels of fidelity.  
It is important to understand that a digital twin is a virtual representation of a particular asset. For 
example: an item identified by a serial number that is updated over time through sensors and other 
mechanisms (e.g., tracking part replacements) to reflect the state of the asset at any given moment. 
However, digital twins can drift from their physical counterparts without careful tracking, the lack of 
which will produce increasingly flawed data underlying the digital twin over time. 
The Task Force looked at other examples from the commercial sector. For example, an auto 
manufacturer creates a digital twin of each of its cars that is updated via sensors in real time. When 
problems are detected (which can occur before drivers notice due to high instrumentation) they can 
either be fixed remotely by software update or locally at a mechanic. Importantly, the digital twins can 
also be used in simulations to improve the car’s software and improvements can be digitally deployed to 
the entire fleet―instead of a hundred drivers driving physical cars for one month to test the software, 
one hundred digital twins of the cars can be virtually driven for one day (with enough computing power) 
to generate the same information.  
A related but distinct concept is a digital thread, which, following an influential 2018 paper by Victor 
Singh and Karen Wilcox, is defined as a software architecture that links authoritative data about an asset 
“across all stages of the product life cycle (e.g., early concept, design, manufacturing, operation, post-
life, and retirement) through a data-driven architecture of shared resources (e.g., sensor output, 
computational tools, methods, and processes) for real- time and long-term decision making.” 7  
More recently, the term digital thread also refers to a software architecture that enables multiple digital 
twins to share authoritative data so that interactions and other complex behaviors of multiple digital 
twins can be tracked, modeled, and simulated. 
 
7 Victor Singh and Karen E. Willcox, “Engineering Design with Digital Thread,” 2018 AIAA/ASCE/AHS/ASC Structures, 
Structural Dynamics, and Materials Conference, 4515-4528, AIAA Journal 56, no. 11 (January 7, 2018), 
https://doi.org/10.2514/6.2018-0569. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[7] 
2.6. Towards MBSE Metrics and a Digital Engineering Maturity Model 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics Will Roper championed the 
benefits of DE imploring the need to “ECreate Before You Aviate.”8 Unable to find clear data on how 
much digital engineering saves in cost and schedule, Air Force Secretary Frank Kendall observed “my 
best feel for that is, it’s on the order of 20 percent, as a ballpark number” before citing additional 
benefits such as fully integrated digital design, government-industry collaboration, and reduction of 
misunderstanding and error. He further noted the importance of real-world testing to validate models 
for unprecedented systems and cited advanced aircraft or hypersonic missiles as good examples: “If you 
haven’t done it before, you’re going to have to go and actually do it.”9 
Secretary Kendall’s statements describe a persistent problem in digital engineering: sparse 
quantification of the benefits of implementing DE and MBSE. A review of the literature published in 
2021 found that less than 1% of reports measured the benefits of MBSE versus perceiving benefits, 
observing benefits, or referencing benefits: 
Overall, the disparity between the extent to which MBSE benefits have been measured or are 
simply perceived, as reported in existing literature, is staggering. Perceived benefits emerged as 
the largest type of claim. In other words, two-thirds of the papers citing benefits of MBSE do so 
without supporting evidence of any kind (i.e., they have not been formally measured, nor 
observed as part of an actual implementation of MBSE). The other classifications follow with 
referenced benefits at just over 30%, observed benefits with 10%, and measured benefits with 
just less than 1%.10 
Beyond reliable data, metrics for quantifying the benefits of digital engineering are themselves still 
emerging. A 2021 study presented at the Eighteenth Annual Acquisition Research Symposium in 2021 
listed ten most commonly accepted metrics to measure the effectiveness of digital engineering: 
increased traceability, reduced defects/errors, reduced time, improved consistency, increased capacity 
for reuse, a higher level of support for automation, better communication and information sharing, the 
establishment of robust DE/MBSE methods and processes, the accessibility of training, and an increased 
willingness to use DE/MBSE tools. 11 The study continues: 
It is important to note that measurement of DE/MBSE is a complex process that must be 
integrated with the entirety of enterprise measurement strategies across all enterprise 
functions. DE/MBSE cannot be isolated to a small group or limited set of programs if the goal is 
to understand and track enterprise value. Generally pilot efforts are recommended to start the 
 
8 W. Roper, “Take the Red Pill: The New Digital Acquisition Reality,” White Paper (September 15, 2010).  
9 John Tirpak, “Kendall: Digital Engineering Was ‘over-Hyped,’ but Can Save 20 Percent on Time and Cost,” Air & 
Space Forces Magazine, May 23, 2023, https://www.airandspaceforces.com/kendall-digital-engineering-over-
hyped-20-percent/. 
10 Kaitlin Henderson and Alejandro Salado, “Value and Benefits of Model‐based Systems Engineering (MBSE): 
Evidence from the Literature,” Systems Engineering 24, no. 1 (December 31, 2020): 51–66, 
https://doi.org/10.1002/sys.21566.  
11 Tom McDermott, Alejandro Salado, Eileen Van Aken, Kaitlin Henderson, “A Framework to Categorize the 
Benefits and Value of Digital Engineering,” Proceedings of the Eighteenth Annual Acquisition Research Symposium, 
2021. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[8] 
adoption process, but maturity in DE/MBSE must become enterprise strategy and a component 
of enterprise performance measurement.12  
INCOSE has been a leading voice in the metrics area, both in the development of a framework, and the 
publication of papers related to metrics for digital engineering improvement. DoD along with the 
industry trade associations, Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs), University 
Affiliated Research Centers (UARCs), etc.,13 have collaborated to create a Digital Engineering 
Measurement Framework, of which v1.0 was published in 2022.14 As this measurement framework gains 
acceptance, the ability to assess practices will shift from qualitative measures to quantitative measures. 
The development of any framework is a sign that the practice is continuing to mature over time.  
One opportunity in the evolution of digital engineering is the development of a DE/MBSE capability 
maturity model. Important enabling work includes an INCOSE effort to create a model-based capabilities 
matrix15 to be used as an assessment tool when characterizing an organization’s current and desired 
MBSE implementation in 42 capabilities and skills areas. The matrix measures these 42 areas in five 
stages of capability, from level 0 to level 4: ad hoc capability application (level 0); use for specific 
objectives (level 1); application of modeling standards and tools (level 2); program/project wide 
capabilities and functionally integrated digital threads/digital twin (level 3); and enterprise-wide 
standards, ontologies, models, and applied capabilities (level 4).  
Inspired by the Software Engineering Institute Capability Maturity Model for Integration, which collects 
best practices for institutions to improve their overall software processes, a standardized maturity 
model could become an important tool to benchmark, guide, and motivate improvement of DE maturity 
levels. Figure 4 provides a notional DE/MBSE maturity model which characterizes the progress of 
developing critical enablers such as strategy, people and culture, process and operations, and underlying 
infrastructure, graduating in maturity from ad hoc to enterprise-wide optimization. 
In summary, moving from anecdotal evidence to qualitative and quantitative measurements is essential 
to maturing the DE enterprise. We summarize this in the Task Force’s first finding.  
 
 
 
 
 
12 Ibid. 
13 These groups include the INCOSE, the Systems Engineering Research Center (SERC), the Aerospace Industries 
Association (AIA), Practical Software and Systems Measurement (PSM), and the National Defense Industrial 
Association (NDIA). 
14 “Digital Engineering (DE) Measurement Framework,” Practical Software and Systems Measurement: Home, June 
21, 2022, https://www.psmsc.com/Downloads/DEPaper/DE%20Measurement%20Framework% 
20ver%201.1%202022-07-27%20final.pdf. 
15 See “MSBE Wiki,” OMG Standards Development Organization, http://www.omgwiki.org/MBSE and Al Hoheb, 
“INCOSE Model-Based Capabilities Matrix: The Aerospace Corporation,” Aerospace Corporation, June 10, 2020, 
https://aerospace.org/story/incose-model-based-capabilities-matrix. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[9] 
Level 5 
Level 4 
OPTIMIZED 
Level 3 
MANAGED 
Level 2 
DEFINED 
Level 1 
REPEATABLE 
AD HOC 
ENABLERS 
Strategy 
Undefined; 
unpredictable 
Digital standards and 
project definitions 
Digitally specified project 
requirements, outcomes, 
and processes 
Digital strategy 
organizationally defined; 
managed and measured 
across life cycle 
Model-based designed in 
quality; defect/rework 
prevention 
Leadership 
No leadership 
support 
Limited leadership 
support 
Leadership acceptance 
Leadership advocacy 
Leadership 
championship 
People & 
Culture 
No explicit training 
program; 
DE disincentivized 
Configuration 
management; 
standard curriculum 
Required training and 
certification; digital 
benefits recognized 
Apprenticeship mastery; 
planned mentorship  
Lifelong learning; growth 
mindset; sustainable 
institutional memory, DE 
benefits rewarded 
Process / 
Operations 
Undocumented; 
uncontrolled; 
reactive 
Project planning; 
planned T&E 
subcontractor 
management 
Project and requirement 
management; process 
orchestration; peer review 
Continuous 
assessment/machine 
learning; quantitative 
process and outcome 
management; portfolio 
and quality management; 
periodic red teaming 
Process change 
management; After 
action reviews; 
continuous red teaming 
Technology 
Individual 
Shared data, 
software, 
subsystems, services 
Manual systems for digital 
requirements; defect 
management; specified 
services; defined 
metamodel 
Intelligent process 
automation for model-
based design, analysis, & 
ops; shared metamodel; 
incorporation of new 
technologies at planned 
insertion points 
AI enabled optimization 
and continuous learning 
of models and twins; 
Agile incorporation of 
new technologies 
Figure 4. A Digital Engineering/MBSE Capability Maturity Model 
2.7. Finding for Quantitative Evidence and Capability Maturity 
2.7.1 Finding: There is a need for more quantitative evidence on cost savings, schedule improvements, 
and increases in flexibility that is the result of MBSE and DE, as well as a need for a capability maturity 
model for digital engineering.  
2.8. Benefits and Limits of Digital Engineering  
Leaders should not assume that integrating digital engineering into the product life cycle is an all-or-
nothing proposition, just as there should be no expectation that developing single-use models in every 
circumstance is worth the investment. Digital engineering use must be carefully planned to balance its 
benefits and limitations. Digital engineering enables maximum use of data, but data sharing is also 
dependent on policy and security rules; it enables digital process flow in areas such as mission 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[10] 
engineering but requires data or tool interoperability across missions and functions. Proper 
implementation of digital engineering may also enable new thinking, such as collapsing the systems 
engineering “vee” or allowing previously infeasible analysis, but these new approaches present decision 
makers with unfamiliar options.  
A key tenet of digital engineering is using a continuum of models and data as appropriate. Business case 
analyses should be conducted before applying digital engineering to any part of the life cycle. If applied 
incorrectly, or at an inappropriate place in the life cycle, digital engineering may drain an unacceptable 
amount of resources or cause program delays. Like any tool, its application must be well considered, and 
it should not be treated like a crutch that will ameliorate other engineering flaws. If handled correctly, 
DE should not be feared. 
Digital engineering has brought about numerous benefits to the defense industry, as illustrated below 
with several examples:  
• 
Reduced development time and risk: The B-21 Raider program utilized digital engineering 
extensively, resulting in a notable reduction in development time. According to Tom Jones, 
President of Northrop Grumman Aeronautics System, “by being able to burn down a lot more risk 
digitally, we're able to take this step, which cuts years out of the overall development program and 
really wrings a lot of risk out.”16 
• 
Improved design accuracy: The T-7 Red Hawk program, which embraced DE principles, has shown 
impressive savings. According to Boeing, the T-7 program achieved 75% increase improvement in 
first-time engineering quality, 80% reduction in assembly hours, and 50% reduction in software 
development and verification time compared to traditional aircraft development programs. This 
cost efficiency was attributed to the effective use of DE tools and processes throughout the 
program.17 
• 
Design optimization: Sentinel, formerly known as the Ground Based Strategic Deterrent, explored 
‘six billion iterations’ to identify the optimal design for cost and performance.18 
• 
Reduced cost and downtime: Aviation battalions with CH-47s avoided $24 million in costs and 
realigned 6,237 maintenance hours to higher priority systems over a six-year period, though the 
exact span is not specified. The Army also reported avoiding $215 million in costs and realigned 
5,324 maintenance hours to higher priorities after using predictive maintenance on UH-60 
Blackhawk helicopters over a six-year period.19 
• 
Enhanced life-cycle management: Digital engineering supports the entire life cycle of defense 
systems including sustainment and maintenance. The United States Navy Digital Twin Shipyard (DTS) 
 
16 Marcus Weisgerber, “Revealed: The Public Finally Gets to See the B-21 Stealth Bomber This Week,” Defense One, 
December 9, 2022, https://www.defenseone.com/business/2022/11/revealed-public-finally-gets-see-b-21- 
stealth-bomber-week/380175/. 
17 “T-7A Red Hawk,” Boeing, https://www.boeing.com/defense/t-7a. 
18John A. Tirpak, “Strategy & Policy,” Air & Space Forces Magazine, August 27, 2021, https://www.airandspace 
forces.com/article/strategy-policy-18/. 
19 Jen Judson, “US Army Turns to Predictive Maintenance to Cut Mishaps,” Defense News, January 20, 2023, 
https://www.defensenews.com/land/2023/01/19/us-army-turns-to-predictive-maintenance-to-cut-mishaps/. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[11] 
initiative has demonstrated the benefits of digital engineering in life-cycle management. Bill Couch, 
Naval Facilities Engineering Systems Command spokesman, stated:  
“Industrial modeling and simulation is being used in conjunction with detailed engineering 
studies and master planning to determine the optimum shipyard configuration and process 
workflow, facility and infrastructure recapitalization requirements, initial cost estimating, and 
a phased implementation plan necessary to sustain ongoing ship maintenance.”20 
While digital engineering offers a variety of benefits, it also comes with some limitations: 
• 
Skill and expertise requirements: Implementing digital engineering requires a skilled workforce with 
expertise in digital tools, modeling, simulation, and data analytics. Training personnel and ensuring 
they possess the necessary skills can pose significant challenges. Organizations must invest in 
continuous training and development to keep up with rapidly evolving technologies. 
• 
Data quality and availability: Digital engineering relies on access to accurate and reliable data. 
Obtaining high-quality data can be challenging, especially when integrating legacy systems or 
working with diverse data sources. Incomplete or inconsistent data can cause inaccuracies, affecting 
the reliability of digital models, which in turn degrades the accuracy of simulations conducted with 
them. 
• 
Integration and interoperability: Integrating DE tools and systems across various platforms, 
domains, and organizations can be complex. Ensuring interoperability and seamless data exchange 
between different tools poses a significant technical challenge in the absence of an open, 
interoperable, and collaborative approach. 
• 
Security and cybersecurity concerns: Digital engineering involves managing large volumes of 
sensitive data. Protecting this data from unauthorized access and cyber threats is critical. 
Organizations must prioritize robust cybersecurity measures to safeguard digital assets, preventing 
exfiltration as well as tampering. 
• 
Cost and infrastructure requirements: Implementing DE practices often requires substantial 
investments in infrastructure, software licenses, and hardware. Organizations need to assess the 
costs associated with acquiring and maintaining the necessary resources. 
• 
Culture and organizational change: Adopting digital engineering may cause significant cultural and 
organizational shifts. Traditional processes and mindsets need to be reevaluated and adjusted to 
embrace new ways of working. This can involve overcoming resistance to change, fostering 
collaboration, and promoting cross-disciplinary teamwork. 
Section 6.2 addresses the challenges associated with training and retaining tomorrow’s DE defense 
workforce. 
 
20 Aidan Quigley, “Navy Completed Digital Twins of All Four Public Shipyards as Shipyard Improvement Efforts 
Continue,” Inside Defense, February 7, 2022, https://insidedefense.com/daily-news/navy-completed-digital-twins-
all-four-public-shipyards-shipyard-improvement-efforts.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[12] 
2.9. DevOps for Automating T&E 
There is a common perception that the adoption of Agile software development processes in 
combination with automation technology (DevOps or DevSecOps) is key to streamlining T&E processes. 
True, under sets of constrained circumstances, there are benefits to these continuous 
integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) approaches in classic information technologies such as the 
Army’s Integrated Personnel and Pay System. However, as the DoD shifts toward complex digital 
systems (e.g., real-time cyberspace and/or electronic operations) and increases software integration in 
traditional platforms such as missiles, ships, tanks, and aircraft, the complexity of conducting T&E 
increases. Its difficulty additionally increases when assessing systems of systems in all domains, as well 
as joint operations in congested, contested, and complex environments. For example, digital twins can 
improve the pace of T&E on all programs, not just programs using the software acquisition pathway. A 
digital twin could also streamline acquisition processes if a waterfall software development process was 
being used. 
In a principled DE approach, these digital modeling tools should share a common engineering baseline 
to facilitate maturing tools and associated data. This enables an efficient approach to using tools over 
the life cycle of a program, as well as improving tools with knowledge gained through development and 
testing over that period. For example, early in its life cycle, a digital modeling tool could simply be a 
constructive model for performing trade studies with no actual system software. Over time, and as more 
parameters become available through design and development progress, the digital modeling tool might 
become a software-based emulator that only includes models of electronic warfare waveforms. Later, in 
a live test, it may become important for this emulator to provide exact and physically consistent 
waveforms, so the digital modeling tool takes on a physical form as well. During deployment, the mature 
digital twin developed through this process can generate simulated data in parallel with data collected 
from the actual system, to be used for assessing its state (e.g., predicting failure modes) and improving 
the fidelity of the digital twin with additional data (e.g., system flight hours). This post-deployment 
application will assume greater importance across the DoD as more rapid software upgrades are pushed 
to the field to expand or enhance system functionality. 
2.10. Verification, Validation and Accreditation (VV&A) 
All programs—not just those developed within the Agile paradigm, and especially if they have system-
of-system or joint requirements—should possess a digital model; that model, by current practice, must 
be accredited as fit for purpose by relevant authorities.21 Unfortunately, validation, verification, and 
accreditation are often thought of as one and the same instead of as three distinct processes, performed 
as an afterthought, or appended to the development process of a model at a time when resources have 
already been exhausted. Under such circumstances, the VV&A process becomes a tax on an already 
burdened program and a headache for the program manager. This can be mitigated to some extent by 
separating the activities within VV&A into their three constituent parts, integrating them into the 
requirements, design, development, and testing process (performed incrementally), and gradually 
accumulating a body of evidence over time that supports model suitability.  
 
21 Often begun well after the start of a program, VV&A efforts for modeling and simulation software can be 
cumbersome, buried in unnecessary detail, and extraordinarily resource intensive.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[13] 
The term “fit for purpose” is especially critical, as it is the purpose or intended use of the digital model 
that ultimately governs how much risk and what types of risk the accreditation agent is willing to accept, 
which in turn governs model uncertainty parameters. This is also why it is “wicked hard” to develop 
universal standards of goodness. Each case is unique. That said, progress has been made over the past 
several years in developing a framework for measuring goodness-of-fit metrics in digital models.22  
2.11. Summary of Current State of Digital Engineering 
Significant progress has been made in the science and technology of digital engineering, including MBSE, 
digital twins, tools and infrastructure, automated T&E, and maturity models. However, gaps remain in 
standards, interoperability, V&V, and adoption. While MBSE is now considered mainstream technology 
in the aerospace and defense industry, not all domains, disciplines, and detail levels can be 
accommodated within a DE framework. Interoperability of enterprise-level software systems, data 
transformation on demand across these systems, and expectations on standards to address these pre-
existing organizational conditions, represent a few critical challenges that require additional work.  
With wider adoption of open protocols and interfaces for operational integration, traditional extensive 
customization services of the enterprise service bus are no longer cost effective. The solution may lie in 
accepting a modular open systems approach and federating data via Data as a Service (DaaS). This 
empowers organizations to readily support existing standards and, more importantly, connect to legacy 
systems with the same speed as modern enterprise systems, including M&S.  
For V&V, one of the key remaining challenges is to define specific quantifiable goals for programs and 
organizations. Top-level goals on systems performance (i.e., measure of effectiveness), cost, schedule, 
and risk are becoming more readily definable from original and emergent requirements. These are then 
made verifiable by M&S infrastructure within the DE framework, including the fusion of model data and 
available test/operation data. Further work is required to enable supply-chain, intellectual property (IP)-
protected ecosystem-level verification and validation. 
 
22 S. Y. Harmon and Simone M. Youngblood, “A Proposed Model for Simulation Validation Process Maturity,” The 
Journal of Defense Modeling and Simulation: Applications, Methodology, Technology 2, no. 4 (October 2005): 179–
90, https://doi.org/10.1177/154851290500200402; North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Science and 
Technology Organization, Modeling and Simulation Group, (2015). Generic Methodology for Verification and 
Validation to Support Acceptance of Models, Simulations and Data, Neuilly-sur-Seine, France: NATO Science and 
Technology Organization; The Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory, (2011). Risk Based 
Methodology for Verification, Validation, and Accreditation M&S Use Risk Methodology, Laurel, MD: Johns Hopkins 
University Applied Physics Laboratory. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[14] 
3. Digital Engineering Case Studies 
To reach its findings and recommendations, the Task Force studied a multiplicity of digital acquisition 
and engineering programs, both defense and commercial, in a broad range of areas from transformation 
of enterprise functions to operational capabilities, in domains ranging from automotive to combat 
aircraft to space operations. The Task Force also reviewed the research previously conducted by the 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSD(R&E)) under its FY 2020 
NDAA Section 231 requirements. This section examines several case studies to understand the 
groundwork necessary for successful DE implementation, as well as potential limitations and pitfalls. 
Figure 5 is a full list of case studies explored by the Task Force.  
Figure 5. Case Studies (highlighted case studies examined in this section) 
It is important to note that most of the data and statistics in this chapter were either provided by the 
programs themselves or were derived from industry and U.S. government reports. The Task Force did 
not validate the information provided, nor do we endorse its accuracy. However, the Task Force believes 
that, in the aggregate, these data points reflect several distinct trends in digital engineering adoption 
and can bound expectations moving forward. As stated in Recommendation 7.2.4, the Department 
should begin a process of collecting specific, verifiable data via an independent third party to quantify 
the benefits and risks of digital engineering in defense programs (both large and small). They should also 
foster the maturation of DE measurement standards such as INCOSE’s Digital Engineering Measurement 
Framework. Until then, DoD will be forced to rely on similar case studies and qualitative comparisons to 
guide decision making. 
3.1. Navy Ford-Class Aircraft Carrier 
The Ford-class aircraft carrier is the first carrier design in more than forty years. This carrier class is at 
the forefront of the Navy’s transition to fully digital ship design and construction, with the lead ship of 
the class, the USS Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78), having been built using mostly traditional construction 
practices; the second ship (USS John F. Kennedy, CVN-79) using modern database tools; and the third 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[15] 
(USS Enterprise, CVN-80) and fourth (USS Doris Miller, CVN-81) ships, under a two-ship block buy 
contract, are implementing what the Navy calls “Integrated Digital Shipbuilding” (iDS). iDS as 
implemented by the prime contractor, Huntington Ingalls Industries Newport News Shipbuilding, is an 
ecosystem that includes digital shipbuilding imagery, laser scanning for precision component placement, 
augmented reality, M&S, and additive manufacturing. The contractor employs a three-dimensional 
rendering of the design, down to fine details of cable, pipe, and other component placement, critical to 
achieving promised labor savings. Anticipated savings are shown in Figure 6, with CVN 81 expected to 
benefit from a 22% reduction in total labor costs, compared to the labor costs for the CVN 78 lead ship. 
 
Figure 6. Projected Labor Cost Avoidance for Ford-Class Aircraft Carrier from First to Third Ship  
(Adapted and updated from program office briefing) 23 
3.2. Air Force T-7A Red Wing Training Aircraft 
In 2020, the Air Force T-7A Red Wing training aircraft was designated the first Air Force “eSeries” 
acquisition program, which indicates that an aircraft, satellite, or weapon system is developed, 
procured, tested, and evaluated using digital engineering as a central enabling system acquisition tool.24 
The Boeing Company, as the prime contractor, employed digital engineering along with open 
architecture design and Agile software development to achieve its first developmental test flight three 
years after concept formulation.25 
It is useful to compare the T-7A program’s experience employing digital engineering to other Major 
Defense System Acquisition Programs (MDAPs) that do not adopt a DE approach: using data from the 
Government Accountability Office’s 2022 Weapon Systems Annual Assessment,26 one can approximately 
 
23 CAPT P. Malone, “John F. Kennedy (CVN 79) Enterprise (CVN 80) & Doris Miller (CVN 81) – Two Ship Buy,” CVN 
79/80/81 Program Office (PMS 379), May 6, 2019, https://www.navsea.navy.mil. 
24 Valerie Insinna, “US Air Force Launches New ‘Eseries’ Aircraft Designation. the Internet Has Questions.,” Defense 
News, August 19, 2022, https://www.defensenews.com/digital-show-dailies/air-force-
association/2020/09/14/the-air-force-launched-a-new-eseries-aircraft-designation-the-internet-had-questions. 
25 “T-7A Red Hawk,” Boeing, https://www.boeing.com/defense/t-7a. 
26 U.S. Government Accountability Office, “Weapon Systems Annual Assessment: Challenges to Fielding Capabilities 
Faster Persist,” U.S. GAO, June 2022, https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-22-105230. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[16] 
compare the interval between program start and the beginning of operational testing. Using 37 active 
and complete MDAP and MDAP increment programs from the Air Force, Navy, Marines, and Army, the 
median (mean) for this interval is eight (ten) years, compared to approximately five years for the T-7A 
program. 
The prime contractor has made other observations about the benefits of adopting digital engineering. In 
particular, Boeing states that their DE focus is responsible for a 75% increase in first-time engineering 
quality, an 80% reduction in assembly hours, and a 50% reduction in software development and 
verification time.27 Other benefits include easier maintenance and flexible technology refresh. 
However, digital engineering is not a panacea for all challenges facing large DoD acquisition programs. 
The T-7A program has incurred actual delays or is expecting additional delays due to complications in 
four major areas: the pilot escape system, flight control software, the suite of ground-based training 
systems, and an incomplete contractor-supplied bill of materials needed for formulating a sustainment 
plan.28 The confluence of these issues contributed to the Air Force delaying the program’s Milestone C 
decision to February 2025 (14 months later than its prior planned decision date), thus delaying low-rate 
initial production of the aircraft and achievement of initial operational capability by three years, from 
2024 to 2027.29 
3.3. Nuclear Power Design at Idaho National Laboratory 
At the INL nuclear facilities, digital engineering has been undertaken to reduce capital costs, shrink 
schedules, increase performance, and reduce operating risks. In particular, the Digital Innovation Center 
of Excellent at INL employs MBSE, augmented/virtual reality (AR/VR), and reuse of code and site level 
requirements. As summarized in Figure 7, INL’s DE approach employs an open-source digital thread that 
enables connection of data, assets, and analytics across energy systems. Immersive AR enables teams to 
visualize and interact with both physical assets and virtual digital twins, including multi-physics models 
and simulations. A model-based approach maintains rigor across systems and facility design while also 
integrating tests between government acquirers and contractor developers. A centralized source of 
truth enables real-time views across the life cycle, process optimization, and cost and risk reduction, 
while digital twins connected to real systems enable predictive maintenance.  
 
27 “T-7 Advanced Pilot Training System: Boeing’s Next Generation of Pilot Training,” Boeing, November 16, 2021 in 
Defense, https://web.archive.org/web/20220528205958/https://www.boeing.com/features/2021/11/t-7-
advanced-pilot-training-system-boeings-next-generation-of-pilot-training.page. 
28 U.S. Government Accountability Office, “Advanced Pilot Trainer: Program Success Hinges on Better Managing Its 
Schedule and Providing Oversight,” U.S. GAO, May 18, 2023, https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-23-106205. 
29 John Tirpak, “Why USAF’s New T-7 Trainer Won’t Start Production for 2 More Years,” Air & Space Forces 
Magazine, April 19, 2023, https://www.airandspaceforces.com/new-t-7-trainer-wont-start-production-2-more-
years/. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[17] 
 
Figure 7. Digital Engineering in Nuclear Power Design: Character and Benefits30 
Drawing on other industry and government examples, INL projects that DE adoption offers the 
opportunity to increase design productivity by 25%, reduce building construction costs 15-25%, and 
reduce operating costs by 14-23%, according to Boston Consulting Group;31 furthermore, General 
Electric observed that adopting a digital approach has avoided $1B in losses among customers.32 INL 
expects DE to significantly reduce cascading risk in future reactor designs by better capturing the 
interactions of complex systems. 
INL notes several research and development (R&D) gaps including policy limitations on the use of 
autonomy, the need for faster and explainable machine learning, lack of digital models for particle sizes 
at scale, and challenges with data and model interoperability.  
3.4. Amazon Web Services IoT TwinMaker 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) has thousands of customers who use AWS Internet of Things (IoT) 
TwinMaker to accelerate a range of systems development in areas including automobiles, robots, and 
manufacturing facilities. By creating a digital twin development platform and leveraging scalable 
software development infrastructure (e.g., cloud computing, GitHub, Grafana for low-code application 
development) and enabling import and reuse of 3D Computer Aided Design (CAD) and Building 
Information Modeling (BIM) files, AWS has significantly reduced the barrier to entry for building digital 
twins. 3D visualization and user augmentation of models with artificial intelligence and machine learning 
(AI/ML) can enable highly realistic representations, behavior, and analytics to accelerate development 
and improve understanding of systems.  
One important lesson learned across many application areas is the importance of M&S, which provides 
an ability to iteratively test and evaluate solutions before physically producing them. Connecting directly 
 
30 Presented to the task force during a briefing by INL. 
31 “The Importance of Virtual Design & Construction: VDC-Driven Outcomes,” Mortenson, July 2014, 
https://www.mortenson.com/-/media/project/mortenson/site/files/services/vdc/study/the-importance-of-virtual-
design-and-construction---mortenson-construction.pdf. 
32 “Industrial Digital Twins: Real Products Driving $1B in Loss Avoidance,” GE Vernova, 
https://www.ge.com/digital/blog/industrial-digital-twins-real-products-driving-1b-loss-avoidance. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[18] 
to an environment with IoT devices, video feeds, or event data informs the creation of 3D digital twins 
which can then be composed with additional models. A MBSE approach enables near real-time 
evolution of systems given new sensor data and/or changes in customer requirements. For example, 
Amazon fulfillment centers use simulation to conceptualize, design, and improve robotic operations as 
shown in Figure 8. 
 
Figure 8. Amazon Use of Simulation to Improve Robotic Operations 
Case studies published by Amazon detail the benefits of employing AWS IoT TwinMaker. It has been 
used to improve productivity and efficiency of distributed plant operations at Investa. At Carrier, it 
accelerated the development of the carrier.io IoT platform to monitor smart buildings and was 
combined with machine learning to decrease service costs, optimize maintenance schedules, and 
increase reliability and profitability. At John Holland, an infrastructure development company in 
Australia, it was used to perform compliance analysis in environmental impact monitoring.  
Given such a broad set of applications, AWS has encountered challenges working within the current 
“state of the art” that include digital asset management and model interoperability.  
3.5. Digital Engineering for Sustainment  
The Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) Strategic Capabilities Office (SCO) recognized Air Force and 
Navy aircraft across multiple missions (air combat, global strike, mobility, and command and control 
(C2)) have not met availability goals.33 The key drivers of this deficit include aging aircraft, maintenance 
delays, and/or shortages in the supply chain often caused by diminishing sources or obsolescence. 
Former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics and founding 
Director of SCO Dr. Will Roper commented that “more than 10,000 parts requests are delayed or 
unfilled each year despite our reluctant willingness to pay premium prices.”34 Figure 9 illustrates a 
process employed by SCO to create a structural digital twin starting with acquiring, scanning and 
modeling the legal structural part, creating a generalized finite element method (GFEM) model of the 
part, and employing an MBSE tool-based model for advanced manufacturing simulation and V&V.  
 
33 U.S. Government Accountability Office, “Weapon System Sustainment: Selected Air Force and Navy Aircraft 
Generally Have Not Met Availability Goals, and DoD and Navy Guidance Need to Be Clarified,” 2018, 
https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-18-678 and “Weapon System Sustainment: Aircraft Mission Capable Goals 
Were Generally Not Met and Sustainment Costs Varied by Aircraft,” 2022, https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-23-
106217.pdf; SCO has also applied the following process to multiple Army vehicles, including the UH-60L. 
34 Will Roper, “3-D Printing Is about to Save the Military Billions of Dollars ...,” Washington Post, December 26, 
2019, https://www.washingtonpost.com/outlook/2019/12/26/d-printing-is-about-save-military-billions-dollars/.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[19] 
 
Figure 9. SCO Process to Create a Structural Digital Twin 
As the graphic in Figure 10 illustrates, this digital engineering and digital thread process requires more 
upfront investment (shown in blue vs. the traditional acquisition shown in purple) and effort but flattens 
the long-term cost curve through significant reduction in operating and support costs. 
Figure 10. Notional Graph Showing How Digital Engineering Flattens the Life Cycle Cost Curve  
(adapted from SCO briefing to the DSB DE Task Force) 
3.6. Digital Engineering at SpaceX 
Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (commonly referred to as SpaceX) provides a useful example of 
the advantages gained via full integration of digital engineering into development, production, and 
operational life cycles, as well as the obstacles to such implementation within the U.S. government 
under current policies. Since its founding in 2002 to late 2023, SpaceX has performed 265 launches with 
at least partial success, delivering satellites into orbit for both its own Starlink constellation and third-
party clients (both commercial and government),35 including 61 successful or partially successful 
launches in 2022 alone (35% of launches worldwide).36 For comparison, 78 launches were performed in 
 
35 “Launches,” SpaceX, accessed October 4, 2023, https://www.spacex.com/launches/. 
36 William Harwood, “SpaceX Caps 2022 with Record-Setting 61st Falcon 9 Launch,” CBS News, December 30, 2022, 
https://www.cbsnews.com/news/spacex-closes-out-22-with-record-setting-61st-falcon-9-launch/; “Number of 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[20] 
total worldwide in 2010, and 82 in 2015.37 This pace relies upon a process of rapid and continuous 
design iteration, by which SpaceX has brought the cost of launch down from an average of $18.5k/kg 
(using various rockets between 1970-2020) to $1.4k/kg (using the Falcon Heavy).38 Combined with its 
rapid rate of operations, this availability of space launch has supported a flourishing ecosystem of space-
based companies developing small- and medium-scale satellites for deployment into low- and medium-
Earth orbits, many of which would not be effective under past launch paradigms. 
The SpaceX development process consists of continuous cycles of development and testing of both 
physical components and software updates. Automated code testing is conducted overnight to cover 
recent changes, and new parts are fabricated based on the data collected during highly instrumented 
tests. This practice is enabled by company-wide use of models (exceeding 25,000 part-assemblies as of 
2015) shared across the enterprise and accessed via a consistent toolkit from a single vendor, which a 
Siemens study found resulted in a 50% increase in the productivity of SpaceX’s design process.39 This 
ensures that employees at every level have access to the requirements and dependencies for both 
individual components and larger systems within each rocket, as well as awareness of changes to any 
given part that arose during aforementioned test cycles. 
The rapid development of technology by SpaceX relies upon a risk-acceptant culture nurtured by its 
leadership. This perspective understands that technical undertakings may fail for any number of reasons 
(especially during active testing), but that the information gained from these tests outweighs the cost in 
time and resources required to fully minimize that risk. This policy has seen high-profile failures in its 
extension to operations, including early rockets exploding on launch pads and damage to launch 
equipment,40 but has also found success in terms of launch pace and rocket reuse that would have 
previously been out of reach for a commercial entity. The extent to which these achievements were 
possible without digital engineering is debatable, but the timeline of accomplishments almost certainly 
would have been elongated otherwise. Given the continued DoD interest in space-based assets (both 
proliferated constellations and traditional satellites), as well as its broader test and development needs, 
it would behoove the Department to consider which philosophies, policies, tools, and techniques are 
applicable within DoD programs. Considering the interplay of these elements within SpaceX, it may be 
that government adoption of only a specific subset will not confer similar benefits. 
For example, rapid test and iteration of systems requires continuous (or at least frequent) access to 
suitable facilities. Current schedules at DoD test ranges are unlikely to allow for this under existing 
policies, and prominent failures when testing systems are less tolerable from a political perspective even 
 
Orbital Space Launches Worldwide from 1957 to 2022,” Statista, January 2023, 
https://www.statista.com/statistics/1343344/orbital-space-launches-global/. 
37 Ibid. 
38 Harry W. Jones, “The Recent Large Reduction in Space Launch Cost,” July 12, 2018, https://ttu-
ir.tdl.org/bitstream/handle/2346/74082/ICES_2018_81.pdf?sequence=1, 2-3. 
39 “SpaceX Case Study,” Siemens PLM Software, 2015, https://www.geoplm.com/knowledge-base-
resources/GEOPLM-Siemens-PLM-NX-SpaceX-cs-Z10.pdf. 
40 Lauren Morello and Alexandra Witze, “SpaceX Rocket to Space Station Explodes after Launch,” Nature, June 28, 
2015, https://www.nature.com/articles/nature.2015.17865; Mike Wall, “Why did SpaceX Starship’s debut launch 
cause so much damage to the pad?,” Space.com, April 24, 2023, https://www.space.com/spacex-starship-damage-
starbase-launch-pad. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[21] 
when they offer useful results, as illustrated by public angst about some hypersonic weapon programs. 
Considering the lethal nature of many systems in question, as well as the potential for human loss 
during failures, a similar philosophy of risk may prove unfeasible for both political reasons and safety 
concerns. Finally, acquisition policy (both as established within DoD and by law) sets milestones, 
approval processes, and oversight functions that do not map cleanly onto continuous development 
cycles, a discrepancy which must be accounted for in some fashion. 
Predicting which of these concerns would limit the effectiveness of digital engineering within DoD is 
impossible due to the number of factors that contributed to SpaceX’s success and the degree to which 
they are interlinked. Several lessons can be learned from its example, however, which will prove useful 
even in a more restrained transition to DE practice within the Department: 
• 
Models provide value to the extent they can be shared, collaborated on, and updated. Adopting 
shared processes and tools for collaboration in secure environments is necessary to achieve 
comparable results. 
• 
Extensive instrumentation for tests with uncertain outcomes can provide key data if supported on a 
political level. Program managers are unlikely to engage in such tests otherwise. 
• 
Rapid testing requires rapid updates to software and hardware to provide useful results. Practices 
that facilitate both must be adopted in tandem. 
3.7. Summary of Lessons Learned 
A number of lessons can be gleaned from previous DE activities as summarized in Figure 11 both for 
model-based acquisition and model-based systems engineering. Many of these are anecdotal results, 
and as previously discussed in this report, require further quantifications activities to full verify. 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[22] 
Benefits 
 
Challenges 
Time: 20% to 400% reduced time 
Increase modeling time and investment for upfront 
and life-cycle modeling  
Cost: 20%+ reduced labor cost 
Need to skill/upskill talent 
Operations: 14%-23% reduced operating costs 
Need to Incentivize model-based acquisition (MBA) 
and MBSE 
Quality: 75% increase in quality 
Immature DE maturity model 
Reduction in required skill across life cycle and 
more rapid and effective knowledge management 
Need to establish education and training 
Increase in predictive analytics helping increase 
readiness rates 
Need for digital data, infrastructure, and tools 
50% reductions in software development and 
verification  
Insufficient policies, procedures, and technology for 
digital acquisition processes  
Reuse and open architectures enabling more rapid 
evolution 
 
Insufficient standards enabling re-use and 
interoperability across data, models, tools, and test 
infrastructure 
As complexity increases, ability to meet or improve 
cost, schedule, and performance 
 
Need for quantified use cases, case studies, and 
economic models to enable DE planning, analysis, and 
forecasting 
Figure 11. Digital Engineering Benefits and Challenges as Reported by the Case Studies: Lessons Learned 
3.8. Findings: Case Studies 
We summarize our main lessons learned from these six case studies with the following findings: 
3.8.1. Finding: When properly applied, digital engineering has demonstrated the ability to improve 
cost, schedule, performance, and agility of complex projects and programs. 
3.8.2. Finding: Digital engineering cannot solve all problems associated with complex DoD acquisition 
programs. While the use of digital engineering can improve cost and schedule estimation, streamline 
design of subsystems, and enable precision integration of these subsystems, digital engineering cannot 
mitigate missteps in acquisition strategy, overly optimistic cost and schedule construction, or contractor 
compliance. 
3.8.3. Finding: Effective use of digital engineering requires oversight and review of DE methodologies, 
processes, tools, and products by technically qualified personnel from the functional area and domain in 
which digital engineering will be implemented. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[23] 
4. Digital Acquisition in DoD 
As previously discussed, the potential advantages of digital engineering are bound by the reality of a 
large bureaucracy that is, by structure, size, and typical practice, not positioned to adopt its central 
elements. Changes can and are being made to improve the Department’s posture in this regard, which 
will be covered in this section alongside the significant hurdles that remain. 
4.1. Progress in Policy  
DoD recognizes the significant acquisition opportunities of digital engineering, as well as the challenges 
its adoption creates at various stages of the process.41 Progress over the past several years includes 
drafting and/or approving the following policies: DoD Instruction 5000.97 , Digital Engineering, DoD 
Instruction 5000.02, Operation of the Adaptive Acquisition Framework (AAF), DoD Instruction 5000.88, 
Engineering of Defense Systems, and DoD Instruction 5000.89, Test and Evaluation. Related are updates 
to its modeling and simulation strategy, including DoD Instruction 5000.61, DoD Modeling and 
Simulation VV&A and DoD Instruction 5000.70, Management of DoD M&S Activities.  
4.2. Progress in Standards 
DoD has also contributed to the advancement of DE and MBSE standards, including SysML 2.0, Open 
Services for Lifecycle Collaboration (OSLC), and a standard for sharing Modelling and Simulation 
Information in a Collaborative Systems Engineering Context (MoSSEC). The DoD has engaged in the Joint 
Enterprise Standards Committee, the governance body for DoD information technology (IT) standards 
and for intelligence community enterprise standards, which manages the DoD IT Standards Registry.  
4.3. Insufficient DE Infrastructure and Standards Investment 
Unfortunately, there has been insufficient investment in DE infrastructure within the Department. Each 
program is generally left to decide how, when, and where to apply the intent of digital engineering 
strategy for its own purposes—a consistent understanding of what constitutes DE infrastructure does 
not exist. Furthermore, it is burdensome for many projects to set up the necessary applications and 
tools required for digital engineering. An initiative to develop a reference architecture for digital 
engineering is required to offer these programs a solid digital foundation. One option, as we discuss 
below, is to develop cloud environments with all necessary DE applications and tools, as well as a data 
infrastructure through which users and tools can share any ASOTs. 
Despite the progress described above, the establishment of DE standards within the DoD is also lacking. 
DoD support for the evolution of standards used internally for DE and MBSE, including SysML 2.0, OSLC 
and MoSSEC, is necessary but insufficient. The DoD must also influence additional standards, such as the 
Unified Architecture Framework, and emerging standards that support computational manipulation, 
which provide for architectures as artifacts within the DEE. Fortunately for the DoD, the Defense 
Standardization Program Office maintains a repository, titled ASSIST, of standards across all disciplines. 
More frequent use of the ASSIST repository to identify usable standards would be of great benefit to the 
 
41 “Digital Engineering, Modeling and Simulation ,” USD(R&E) Systems Engineering and Architecture, accessed 
January 30, 2024, https://www.cto.mil/sea/dems/. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[24] 
DE practitioners, as it is highly likely that those relevant for any computational activity will work within 
the DEE.  
4.4. Need for Increased DE Knowledge Sharing  
DoD continues to make significant progress in DE knowledge sharing via the Digital Engineering and 
Modeling & Simulation Community of Practice, helping to curate best practices, updating training at the 
DAU, sharing successful implementations, measuring usefulness, and integrating the traditional M&S 
practice with needs from the DE practice.  
DAU is investing in new courses focused on digital engineering (e.g., Digital Literacy, Digital Engineering 
Credential); additionally, academic-related organizations, such as the Systems Engineering Research 
Center (SERC), have developed DE bootcamps that have been delivered to the U.S. Space Force and 
others. However, additional work is required to develop a workforce that is cognizant of various aspects 
of digital engineering at relevant levels of detail. This is a critical training investment that the DoD needs, 
despite its long lead time. As mentioned above, DoD has helped instantiate authoritative resources for 
the engineering community to use in implementing digital engineering, starting with systems 
engineering and expanding to specific disciplines, engineering domains, and specialty areas. DAU 
courses should continue to build upon this progress while developing talent. Other efforts to increasing 
knowledge sharing within the Department includes the Digital Engineering Body of Knowledge (DEBoK), 
which focuses on underlying fundamentals, enablers, guidance, and examples of DE implementation.  
Some foundational investments for developing a workforce development framework are in place. In 
addition to support for other user communities in appropriate elements of digital engineering (thereby 
expanding the community of practice), an academic outreach effort is likely necessary to evolve their 
graduate-level DE courses at a scale capable of meeting DoD and defense industrial base (DIB) workforce 
needs. 
4.5. Need for DE Contractual Evolution  
Investments to develop the necessary contractual elements to support digital engineering and digital 
transformation is lacking, which makes it difficult for classical contract data requirement lists to reflect 
the equivalent and relevant digital artifacts. While there are small investments happening across 
services and programs regarding specific statement of work language, methods and methodologies to 
conduct design reviews and establish technical baselines in a DE context with digital artifacts are still 
immature at best. A community effort in this regard is necessary and important. 
4.6. Assessment of OSD Response to FY 2020 NDAA Section 231(a) through (c)  
Congressional guidance on digital engineering includes both Section 231(a) through (c) of the FY 2020 
and FY 2022 NDAA. The OSD review in response to Section 231 was comprehensive, thoughtful, and 
detailed in its assessment of the use of digital engineering in some of the most important MDAP 
programs. Importantly, the team identified how digital engineering benefited the development and test 
of key defense weapon systems. However, the team was not able to forward its recommendations for 
action for various reasons. The additional reports (workforce and infrastructure) should be finalized and 
released to the Department for further action. The FY 2022 NDAA reiterated the importance of making 
progress on digital acquisition and digital engineering, and this Task Force strongly concurs.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[25] 
4.7. Findings: Digital Acquisition 
While progress has been made in application of digital engineering in acquisition in the DoD, immaturity 
is still reflected in necessary but insufficient policies and standards, insufficient shared digital acquisition 
infrastructure, and immature architectures and standards resulting in disconnection of data flows within 
and across functions (e.g., program management, development, testing and evaluation). This is 
exacerbated by insufficient engagement with the standards community resulting in inconsistent 
application of digital engineering across the acquisition process. More specifically:  
4.7.1 Finding: There has been positive progress on policies (e.g., Common Data Environment, Data 
Acquisition Visibility Enterprise), contracts, and knowledge sharing since the release of the Digital 
Engineering Strategy on June 18, 2018, which led to acquisition-functional policies on Digital 
Engineering. 
4.7.2. Finding: The digital transformation of the DoD acquisition process (policies and guidebooks 
associated with the Adaptive Acquisition Framework (AAF)) is inconsistent, and related policies, 
processes, and standards are not fully integrated across functions. The shift from DE strategy to DE 
implementation on programs has been inconsistent. A review of the AAF policies and guidebooks 
reveals that the functional activities, as well as the pathways are discontinuous in continuum of data 
flow, and inconsistent in application of digital methods and tools to conduct analysis and support 
decision making at all levels. 
4.7.3. Finding: Some DE intellectual property policies support sharing models and data for digital 
engineering, while other policies create restrictions and friction with the DE processes and 
implementations that require sharing models and data. 
4.7.4. Finding: Each project and program must develop their own infrastructure for digital engineering, 
and this can be prohibitive for some projects and programs. 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[26] 
5. Digital Engineering in DoD 
5.1. Trade-Offs Applying Digital Engineering to Complex Projects 
Almost all advanced systems that the DoD develops and operates from this point forward can benefit 
from the powerful modeling and analysis that is supported by digital engineering. However, applying 
digital engineering to a complex project is not an all-or-nothing proposition, and no application of 
technologies and methodologies has only benefits. Just as we understand some development processes 
should be more “agile” and some more “waterfall,” there are resource costs to the use of digital 
engineering; a serious analysis of costs vs. benefits must be conducted before digital engineering is 
applied to a project, the specifics of which must in turn be tailored to meeting specific needs and 
challenges. 
Taking full advantage of digital engineering requires moving from a document-based acquisition process 
into a data and model-based decision process. The acquisition processes currently in place often prove 
cumbersome and were developed for managing large, complex, typically physical systems. This is in 
stark contrast to the rapid, fail-fast, iterative approaches common with applications of software 
engineering, especially in the commercial world. Applying such an agile approach in digital engineering 
may include a reimagining of the AAF pathways,42 remapping guidebooks and policies, and retraining 
decision makers to achieve proficiency with data and model-based decision processes.  
To facilitate this transition from document to model-centric systems engineering, the Task Force created 
a checklist of critical steps programs and portfolios should follow when considering DE implementation 
which can be found in Appendix C in this report.  
5.2. Lack of a Common, Open Reference Architecture 
A DoD reference architecture must enable representation of environments, systems and subsystems, 
various levels of fidelity (from lower-level physics to higher-level mission and campaign models), various 
aspects of the systems (e.g., physical, electrical, digital), and capture full life cycles (from requirements 
through design, development, T&E, and deployment to end of life). The lack of system- and component-
level DE reference architectures can increase costs and delay schedules for projects whose teams have 
not used digital engineering previously. The lack of a standard reference architecture can also result in 
incompatibilities and lack of interoperability, introducing complexity that undermines readiness and 
exposes the system to additional threats.  
Figure 12 illustrates a potential reference architecture for digital engineering illustrating various levels of 
models and life cycles.  
 
42 “Adaptive Acquisition Framework Pathways,” Defense Acquisition University, accessed January 30, 2024, 
https://aaf.dau.edu/aaf/aaf-pathways/. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[27] 
 
Figure 12. A Potential Reference Architecture for Digital Engineering 
Note that in the potential reference architecture in Figure 12, all models, services, applications, and 
interfaces have access to ASOT. This increases the speed of development, improves V&V, simplifies 
interoperability, and removes barriers for reuse. 
Until DE instantiations become commonplace, and the acquisition process is updated to support it, 
digital engineering will require more planning up front than traditional programs. Once a project 
commits to digital engineering, its ecosystem must be established, with the appropriate ASOT and all 
tools necessary to produce artifacts for the user community. Tool and simulation interoperability must 
be ensured at this stage. Because of the introduction of new attack surfaces, cybersecurity requirements 
must also be carefully evaluated before these constructs are populated. Furthermore, DE architecting 
must accommodate use of the models, simulations, data, and tools expected for each project. 
Contracting must be adjusted to ensure that delivered and accepted artifacts are constantly updated 
and used instead of languishing as static, single-use existences; validation and verification may also 
require new processes. DE architectures are also typically constrained by one or more existing standards 
set by policy or law. These up-front constraints may interfere with Agile development methodologies 
and incur significant development resource costs. 
5.3. Impediments for Sharing the Information and Artifacts Required for Digital 
Engineering 
Effective information sharing across various parties, including acquirers, sustainers, contractors, and 
operators involves a complex set of tradeoffs between protecting creators and enabling users of digital 
artifacts. Competitive market forces can create intellectual property barriers to the information sharing 
required for digital engineering unless this is carefully addressed by contracts at the start of the project. 
It can be challenging to separate and isolate digital data according to its IP, making sharing even more 
difficult. Although the law provides for acknowledgement of this through the Doctrine of Segregability,43 
 
43“Data Rights, Identification and Assertion of Use, Release or Disclosure Restrictions, DFARS 252.227-7017,” 
Defense Acquisition University, https://www.dau.edu/acquipedia-article/data-rights-identification-and-assertion-
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[28] 
all current practices regarding intellectual property do not employ digitalization to this level and will 
require cultural and practice adaptation. 
Other disincentives to sharing data are not so obvious or technically solvable. While the DoD Chief 
Information Officer (CIO) and the data strategy encourage appropriate and secure data availability, in 
practice this is not supported. Sharing data often comes with disincentives in the form of additional 
inquiries and criticisms, misuse of data, and/or pushback on reuse. Responding to these requires 
resources which are not typically planned for in cost or schedule considerations. 
5.4. New Attack Surfaces Created by Digital Engineering 
Risk of Abuse/Attack (from increased attack surface). Because a model is a digital artifact maintained 
on a network and accessible to people, it is subject to abuse and attacks of all forms, and greater 
reliance upon models opens new avenues for attack. Care must be taken to ensure models and the 
systems they reside upon are secured, maintained, and operated correctly. An increase in the number of 
DoD and DIB personnel conducting digital engineering will also increase the number of systems 
requiring this level of protection—especially when attacks corrupting models, altering the outcomes of 
simulations, or otherwise degrading the effectiveness of digital engineering may be harder to detect 
than large-scale exfiltration of information (discussed below). Security concerns constrain the use of 
reusable libraries and other open resources that may contain their own unknown or unreported 
vulnerabilities. Future systems with embedded models (or other information used for digital 
engineering) also offer novel avenues of attack against digital twins or other resources that are 
continuously updated using real-world results.  
The cost of preventing these attacks, like everything relating to digital security, adds to the cost of 
programs implementing digital engineering (although DoD must develop techniques for countering 
cyberthreats in general). Still, it represents a cost over models used in economic sectors that are not 
frequently targeted by state actors.  
Risk of Information Exfiltration and Disruption. Enormous amounts of information about operational 
systems are embedded within models. The better models are, the more valuable they are as a 
specification for operational intent, description of capabilities, or representation of battlespace 
research. Therefore, the danger posed by any given model being stolen and exfiltrated is significantly 
higher than many other digital assets. While theft of a model’s implementation is a great risk, it is 
equally dangerous if adversaries can break into existing systems and learn their precise operating 
characteristics. 
Adversary use of Digital Engineering. Adversaries are likely to adopt (and are currently adopting) DE 
approaches because of potential cost, schedule, and performance benefits to gain advantage in 
weapons system development. They also are likely to be motivated to steal, degrade, or destroy our DE 
infrastructure (including digital data and models) for battlefield advantage. Existing IP exfiltration efforts 
suggest that some adversaries are more capable in this field than others, and developing better tools 
 
use-release-or-disclosure-restrictions; “DFARS 252.227-7013 Rights in Technical Data—Other Than Commercial 
Products and Commercial Services,” Acquisition.gov, https://www.acquisition.gov/ 
dfars/252.227-7013-rights-technical-data%E2%80%94other-commercial-products-and-commercial-services; 
“DFARS 227.7203-4 License Rights,” Acquisition.gov, https://www.acquisition.gov/dfars/227.7203-4-license-rights. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[29] 
and techniques to prevent these attacks will be critical as reliance upon highly detailed models 
increases. 
5.5. Research in DE is Needed in Selected Areas  
Given the significant amount of commercial investment in DE and MBSE, DoD should focus its research 
investments to meet needs that are unlikely to be addressed otherwise. Figure 13 summarizes near-, 
mid-, and far-term focus areas across each stage of the systems life cycle. As illustrated in the rightmost 
DoD role column, the Department should generally be a fast follower in underlying DE tools and 
infrastructure development, which will be dominated by commercial investment. It should focus its 
efforts to lead on national security domain and unique operational areas in design, analysis, T&E, and 
O&M. For example, DoD should lead in digital engineering of large, complex systems of systems that 
need to operate in contested, congested, or denied environments with adversaries engaged in denial 
and deception, entailing significant uncertainty.  
 
Figure 13. DoD Digital Engineering/MBSE Focus Areas 
Sustainment through distributed and Agile manufacturing is another area where the Department’s 
unique needs may drive research and investment. DE models coupled with additive manufacturing 
enable creation of components for complex systems in the field. Digital designs enable manufacturing of 
obsolete parts for aging systems when diminishing supply chains can no longer meet DoD demand. 
Digital models also enable flexible manufacturing that can provide agile creation of parts, and even 
entire systems, when modular robots can import digital designs and create flexible on demand products.  
Other broad research gaps exist in high-performance computing and multiscale M&S, uncertainty 
quantification, cybersecurity, deep learning, generative AI modeling, and determining how these can be 
used to create increasingly complex, adaptive, reliable, and resilient digital models. These fields have 
significant overlap with other DoD focus areas, and research is likely to be driven by other needs as a 
result. 
5.6. Trade-offs Required for Effective Digital Engineering  
Populating a DEE with models and developing digital twins requires understanding what use they will be 
put to and what level of model fidelity is required to support those uses. There is currently little work to 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[30] 
match model internals to intended uses, and few methods to determine what level of modeling is 
required. Challenges with respect to model fidelity for digital twins include the following: 
• 
Leaders must specify precise goals within developer capabilities that fill user needs. Is the digital 
twin supposed to faithfully mimic all aspects of a real-world system or just some? How much 
modeling is enough to answer the question? How much fidelity is needed?  
• 
Modelling inaccuracy must be predicted and accounted for: Digital twins with errors have the 
potential to propagate issues into physical systems, as does flawed M&S. Furthermore, digital twins 
are likely to be built of a hierarchy or (more generally) a network of interlocking models. Even if each 
model works correctly when isolated, the ensemble may behave differently. 
Without clarity on both the objectives and accuracy of the digital twin, users may not be able to trust it 
sufficiently to gain its benefits. Consulting real-world systems to evaluate the trustworthiness of a digital 
twin’s output limits its value, as V&V adds complexity to an entire project, particularly with the 
reverification and revalidation that is required every time changes are made to real-world systems. 
5.7. Continued Need for Real World Test and Evaluation 
The Task Force recognizes that while digital T&E provides many benefits, there are numerous 
circumstances in which real-world testing and evaluation are still necessary. This occurs under 
circumstances:  
• 
when models do not provide the required fidelity,  
• 
when the complexities and interdependencies are insufficiently understood (e.g., individual and 
group human behavior, autonomous systems), 
• 
in complex and contested environments (e.g., stealth, electronic warfare) where models are not 
sufficiently mature, and 
• 
when the investment required for digital T&E exceeds its benefits.  
Examples of limitations in model fidelity and accuracy include multilevel physics-based models and their 
interactions such as thermal, vibrology, acoustics, tribology, etc., as well as representation of and 
reasoning about environmental effects (e.g., weather, atmospherics, space, subsurface). Unmodeled 
interactions with external systems also cause areas of uncertainty that may require physical testing. Of 
course, as the fidelity and capabilities of MBSE improve over time, the number of these cases will 
decrease.  
5.8. Findings: Digital Engineering 
5.8.1 Finding: The lack of a common open reference architecture for digital engineering creates 
additional costs and risks for projects that use digital engineering. 
5.8.2 Finding: The lack of standards can increase the costs of using digital engineering and the 
likelihood of errors and risks. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[31] 
5.8.3 Finding: The lack of test data and its reuse and the lack of models and their reuse decrease the 
ability to create system-of-systems models, decrease the fidelity of results, and add significantly to costs 
of testing and validation. 
5.8.4 Finding: The cost of acquiring DE tools and applications is a barrier for some projects and 
programs to use digital engineering. 
5.8.5 Finding: The growing use of digital engineering creates more attack surfaces and potential 
vulnerabilities that must be protected. This includes protecting all associated data, models, tools, and 
infrastructure.  
5.8.6 Finding: Decision makers and developers need to ensure data and models are appropriately 
verified and validated and applied or re-used appropriately to manage the risk of misapplication.  
5.8.7 Finding: Existing gaps in high performance computing and multiscale modeling and simulation, 
verification and validation, cybersecurity, deep learning, and generative AI modeling impede more rapid 
progress on creating increasingly complex, adaptive, reliable, and resilient digital models.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[32] 
6. Digital Engineering Workforce Challenges for DoD 
6.1. Progress in DE Knowledge and Knowledge Sharing  
As previously noted, the DoD has improved knowledge sharing by establishing DEBoK, a body of 
authoritative resources for the engineering community to use when implementing digital engineering, 
starting with systems engineering and expanding to specific disciplines, engineering domains, and 
specialty areas. Training and practice are advanced by a community of practitioners via access to best 
practices and standard terms and definitions. The DEBoK focuses on underlying fundamentals, enablers, 
guidance, and examples of DE implementation. In addition to engagement with industry DE standards 
organizations, DoD has advanced all-domain digital operations analysis through its recent efforts, 
including engineering Joint All-Domain Command and Control and digital experimentation in the Rapid 
Defense Experimentation Reserve.  
6.2. Need for DE Workforce Development 
Digital engineering requires a disparate range of skills beyond engineering practice principles, including 
programming, modeling, simulation, and data analysis. Today, there is no clear definition or standard 
resume for a DE expert. Many of these skills, taken independently, are in high demand across many 
industries. These factors make it difficult to recruit, train, and retain a DE-capable workforce. Instead of 
waiting for market conditions to shift, the defense industry needs to develop and maintain a digitally 
enabled acquisition workforce and culture that understands model-based engineering; modern software 
development practices; DE processes, methods, and tools; and digital artifacts across the acquisition life 
cycle.44 
A successful short-term workforce development program should emphasize training and internal 
reorganization to adopt emerging technologies into specific use—such as model-based engineering, 
AI/ML, VR/AR, digital twins, and additive manufacturing—that are beginning to transform the industry. 
In this way, defense organizations may be able to carry forward the knowledge of legacy engineering 
processes, taking full advantage of new tools and developing more efficient and effective practices. This 
approach focuses on adapting the current workforce to the new realities of the industry. 
However, the future of digital engineering will require a larger cultural shift in how the DoD and DIB 
understand the practice of engineering. This will require nothing less than a full DE educational 
curriculum across the spectrum of DoD activities, one which embraces technologies that are considered 
disruptive today. 
A proper DE curriculum should focus on two principles: multidisciplinary thinking and collaborative 
learning. 
• 
Multidisciplinary thinking exposes people to complementary sets of skills and knowledge that can 
be applied to real-world situations. This leads to an adaptable workforce capable of handling 
ambiguous, complex, and dynamic situations. Multidisciplinary training can also help to identify 
 
44 Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, “Digital Engineering Workforce Plan,” 
Department of Defense (April 2022): DOPSR Case #22-S-1527, https://ac.cto.mil/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/DE-
WorkforcePlan-March2022.pdf. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[33] 
weaknesses or opportunities in strategy by contrasting possible approaches, leading to more 
effective and efficient operations. 
• 
Collaborative learning encourages knowledge sharing and teamwork. This approach can help DE 
stakeholders learn from each other's experiences and perspectives, fostering a more innovative 
work environment.  
These core principles are likely to be affected by five important technological trends: MBSE, VR/AR, 
AI/ML, digital twins, and additive manufacturing. 
• 
Model-based systems engineering enables disparate DE stakeholders to collaborate effectively, 
reducing errors, delays, and miscommunications. Equally important are the enhanced flexibility and 
agility afforded by these model-based ecosystems. These ecosystems also supply the building blocks 
for increased automation, enabling engineers to delegate repetitive tasks and focus on high-level 
work. 
• 
Virtual and augmented reality technologies provide an immersive training experience that enables 
workers to practice in a realistic-but-simulated environment. This approach can help workers gain 
hands-on experience in a controlled setting, improving their proficiency and confidence. 
• 
Artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies can help workers analyze increasingly 
complex data sets, identify patterns, and make more informed decisions. Properly applying AI/ML 
will enable workers to offload repetitive or time-consuming tasks, liberating them to focus on the 
critical thought required to address future challenges. According to the National Security 
Commission on Artificial Intelligence:  
DoD and [the Department of Homeland Security] should require mandatory training designed to 
improve baseline AI literacy... The training should focus on end users and their ability to collect 
and manage data and include a short introduction to AI with an emphasis on machine learning, 
data management, the capabilities and limitations of AI, software decision-making, probabilistic 
reasoning, and an introduction to the responsible and ethical development and fielding of AI. 45 
• 
While digital twins already provide substantial value in the development of modern systems 
through predictive insights, manufacturing optimization, etc., there is still a clear need for 
developing knowledge of tools, methods, and best practices to accelerate understanding, adoption, 
and broader realization.46 
• 
Additive manufacturing is expected to revolutionize how products are designed and produced. This 
technology will likely transform some of the deepest and oldest foundations of fielding and 
sustaining platforms as outlined in the DoD Additive Manufacturing Strategy.47 Combining rapid 
 
45 “First Quarter Recommendations – March 2020,” National Security Commission on Artificial Intelligence, 
https://www.nscai.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/NSCAI-First-Quarter-Recommendations.pdf. 
46 “Digital Twin: Reference Model, Realizations & Recommendations”, AIAA, AIA, and NAFEMS Implementation 
Paper, January 2023. 
47 “DoD Additive Manufacturing Strategy,” Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, 
https://www.cto.mil/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/dod-additive-manufacturing-strategy.pdf  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[34] 
design iteration with flexible manufacturing will allow the industrial base, or even warfighters within 
their area of operations, to better respond to emerging adversary capabilities. 
Not every position will require the same mix of the skills and knowledge presented above. A successful 
DE curriculum will therefore have two essential characteristics: an expanded partnership with academia 
and flexible, personalized learning experiences. 
Academic partnerships are essential because a curriculum that satisfies the core principles outlined here 
while remaining adaptive to technological advances must be embraced in higher education. There will 
be a significant advantage for the defense industry and its next-generation workforce if students 
become familiar with DE principles as an integral part of their collegiate education. 
One leading example of academic partnership is the DAU, which provides the knowledge, skills, and 
abilities required to perform specific acquisition-related functions and tasks. Another example is the 
Aerospace Systems Design Laboratory at the Georgia Institute of Technology, which offers several 
modes of engagement with industry. These include sponsored research, centers of excellence, strategic 
alliances, fellowships, grand challenges, and a professional master’s degree in applied systems 
engineering. 
A DAU course of instruction (e.g., DE 101, DE 201) should be actively curated both in terms of current 
best practices, as well as enabling tools and technologies, for both digital acquisition and engineering in 
both defense and commercial contexts. This education should leverage modern digital methods that 
enable not only remote delivery and broader accessibility but also the ability to personalize curricula and 
advance microcredentials, enabling more rapid upskilling and reskilling of the workforce to create and 
leverage digital artifacts across the life cycle. A senior-level course (perhaps as a capstone to lower-level 
courses) should also be developed, given that leadership education is particularly important to influence 
strategic outcomes.  
As the workforce becomes more diverse, training programs will need to become more flexible to meet 
the needs of individual workers. This approach can help workers focus their training while learning at 
their own pace in a way that best suits individual learning style and preferences. 
To realize the full potential of digital engineering, the defense industry must invest in entirely new ways 
of training the workforce. By taking the long view, defense organizations can improve workforce 
development by beginning their DE education in conjunction with traditional engineering education. 
And by embracing key emerging technologies, these organizations can prepare their workforces to take 
the greatest advantage of them while contributing to ongoing developments. Meanwhile, establishing a 
consensus curriculum for this discipline—and promoting undergraduate and graduate programs of study 
for it—will enable the DIB to recruit new workers who see digital engineering as a passionate and 
promising career path. 
Training and education provide a necessary-but-insufficient basis for digital engineering adoption and 
eventual transformation within DoD. The culture of the DoD must itself be open to forward movement 
within the engineering discipline, and within the functional activity areas supported by engineering. It 
would be dangerous for medical treatment to be unchanging and incapable of innovation. In the same 
way, the engineers and engineering practice of the DoD must continuously advance and improve when 
developing new technologies. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[35] 
6.3. Findings: DE Workforce 
Workforce training is provided in DoD in both core and specialty areas. The Engineering and Technical 
Management (ETM) workforce area is supported by a functional integrated team, developing 
competencies, training, and credentials for the ETM workforce. However, not all ETM training is fully 
developed. For example, as of January 2023 only five (of a potential 25) credentials are available to the 
ETM workforce, with only one specifically calling out digital engineering. There is also only one 
credential for data analytics.  
There is insufficient acquisition workforce education and training in digital processes and DE methods 
and tools (e.g., MBSE, DE, Agile software development) across functional areas beyond engineering to 
include analysts, program managers, testers and evaluators, contract managers, operators, and 
maintainers. This impedes the realization of the cost, schedule, and performance benefits of digital 
engineering. It increases the likelihood of expensive rework, acquisition delays, system errors and 
failures, and disengagement, if not loss of, high-quality talent, timely and relevant solutions to ever-
advancing threats. 
Effective digital engineering requires the exchange of data and models across the life cycle and 
granularity (e.g., sub-component, component, system, system of systems) of products and programs. 
Unfortunately, the acquisition policies and processes do not currently specify the necessary exchange of 
data and models as required. This imposes a burden on the DE workforce and complicates training. 
In summary, DE workforce education must be guided by a plan and enabled by a culture that supports 
experimentation and change, focusing on the end result of improved systems for the warfighter and 
savings for the taxpayer. 
6.3.1. Finding: There is no articulated approach to training the acquisition workforce in digital 
processes and DE methods and tools in all functional areas of acquisition.  
6.3.2. Finding: Existing DoD programs such as the Highly Qualified Experts (HQE) appointing authority 
and the Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) Mobility Program to acquire critical talent pools from 
academia and industry, together with the possibility of investing in fellowship-based military research 
and/or defense focused DE institutes, can provide additional pipelines of talent.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[36] 
7. Recommendations 
7.1. Recommendation 1: Develop DoD DE Reference Architecture and DE 
Infrastructure 
Each Service Acquisition Executive (SAE), in close coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition and Sustainment (USD(A&S)), USD(R&E), and Director, Operational Test and Evaluation 
(DOT&E), review, leverage and harmonize existing DE reference architectures and create an enabling DE 
infrastructure that incorporates rigorous digital engineering at levels to maximize benefits and future 
capability reuse: 
7.1.1. Immediately initiate an activity to develop a set of harmonized “Reference Architecture patterns” 
for DoD digital engineering implementation for the Department’s effort across multiple services, 
domains, and systems (including platforms, payloads, and subsystems) to support the innovation and 
evolution of policy, processes, operations, and implementation with DE best practices. 
7.1.2. Immediately initiate a task to develop a CONOPS that leads to the implementation of an Exemplar 
Reference Implementation for a Digital Engineering Ecosystem, leveraging the various ongoing efforts 
across the DoD, FFRDCs, UARCs, and the DIB, in coordination with the relevant DE/MBSE standards and 
professional organizations (e.g., National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), INCOSE, Object 
Management Group). This would include approaches to allow semantically rich data interoperability 
across acquisition pathways, acquisition functions, engineering domains, and abstraction levels. An 
Exemplar Reference Implementation could also give guidance on how and when to tailor digital 
engineering based on program features. 
7.1.3. Explore creating DE Infrastructure as a Service (DEIaaS) that would enable appropriate cross-DoD 
and -DIB access to data, models, tools, and computational infrastructure to help accelerate learning and 
engineering and sharing best practices, and to help foster reuse of digital artifacts. 
7.2. Recommendation 2: Accelerate Digitally Enabled Acquisition 
The USD(A&S), with support from USD(R&E) and Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office (CDAO), 
evolve the acquisition policy, processes, operations, and digital transformation to include practical 
application of digital engineering across the acquisition life cycle in acquisition and contract 
management, including digital deliverables of DE artifacts at key contractual milestones. 
7.2.1. Evolve acquisition portfolios and programs to employ digital engineering best practices across the 
acquisition life cycle in acquisition and contract management. 
7.2.2. Pursue whenever appropriate a MBSE-first approach in all acquisition pathways, strategies, and 
contracts to support continuous operations and sustainment of portfolios and programs to better meet 
rapidly changing adversarial threats, not just at initial procurement. 
7.2.3. Tailor language to acquisition and contract management policy and procedures encouraging use 
of models and simulation results to strengthen data-driven decisions in acquisition and sustainment 
activities. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[37] 
7.2.4. Within six months of the publication of this report, begin collecting quantitative evidence of cost, 
schedule, and performance benefits of MBSE as well as required investments, and identify a UARC, 
FFRDC, or systems engineering professional society as a long-term, trusted repository for sharing data, 
aggregated data, evidence, best practices, and lessons learned to advance learning and performance 
across the Department. Ensure contributing data have as few restrictions as possible so it can be used as 
a body of evidence that can be used to improve the state of digital engineering. 
7.3. Recommendation 3: Accelerate Virtual Testing and Reuse of Test Data 
7.3.1. DOT&E and Military Service test offices conduct tradeoff analyses for all programs and portfolios 
to quantify, identify, and select virtual testing over physical testing where there are resource, safety, 
and/or confidentiality advantages. Favor virtual testing to shift resources to improve test and model 
fidelity. 
7.3.2. USD(R&E) and DOT&E ensure live test is digitally captured and shared in the engineering 
ecosystem to more rapidly evolve models and the corresponding systems they represent. Data captured 
from operations should be used to improve digital engineering models wherever feasible.  
7.3.3. USD(R&E) finalize and deliver to the DoD infrastructure reports for Section 231(a) through (c) of 
the FY 2020 NDAA.  
7.4. Recommendation 4: Invest in DE Research and Development 
OUSD(R&E), DARPA, and Military Service laboratories invest in gaps in DE practice that are 
insufficiently addressed commercially, including high performance computing and multiscale (fidelity, 
resolution, and level of application) modeling and simulation, enhanced quantitative modeling and 
simulation of software, verifiability and validity, cybersecurity, and generative AI modeling in contested 
environments, as well as investigate impediments and solutions to increase the adoption of digital 
methods.  
Figure 14 captures DE gaps that should be addressed in the near-, mid- and far term. These are arrayed 
across various areas in the acquisition cycle that could accelerate DE progress. While there are varying 
levels of DE capability across domains (e.g., air, land, sea, space, cyberspace) and missions (e.g., ISR, 
Command and Control (C2), O&M, logistics, business systems) or particular missions (e.g., missile 
defense, nuclear C2, counterterrorism, humanitarian operations), this table is intended to capture gaps 
across these areas. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[38] 
 
Data and Data 
Analytics 
Models and Digital Twins 
Engineer Tools 
Acquisition Tools 
T&E 
O&M 
Near Term 
(1-3 years) 
• Data standards 
• Data sharing 
protocols 
• Shared DoD data 
model 
• DoD catalog of 
distributed data 
• Standards for data 
analytics and data 
visualization 
• Shared physics-based 
model catalog 
• Model bias, 
incompatibility, and 
anomaly detection 
• Model integrity and IP 
protection assurance 
• Open DE framework 
and reference 
architecture 
• DE design catalog 
• Intuitive and 
learnable human-
model interfaces 
(AR/VR/XR 
compatible) 
• Model-based acquisition 
(MBA) framework 
• Catalog of shared, 
interoperable MBA tools 
• Pathfinder model-based 
RFP and source selection 
(with MB threat 
definition, MB system-
level functional and 
performance 
requirements)  
• Digital twin validation 
and verification  
methodology and 
tools  
• Model metrology 
• Digital test scenarios 
(at unit test, system, 
system-of-systems, 
and operational 
levels) 
• Model maintenance 
framework 
• Predictive and 
prescriptive maintenance 
development 
• Virtual training 
infrastructure 
• Operational learning 
• Case studies of 
quantitative benefits, 
costs, and risks 
Mid Term 
(5 years) 
• Dynamic DoD 
catalog of 
distributed data 
• Shared DoD 
ontology 
• Resilience and 
sustainability data 
ingestion and 
analytics 
• DoD metamodel 
standard 
• Complex system 
modeling across 
disparate modeling 
classes (e.g., physical/ 
material, biological, 
cognitive, social, etc.) 
• Resilient models for 
adaptable systems 
• DE vulnerability analysis 
tool (e.g., using NIST 
RMF) 
• Tools for data and 
model uncertainty 
management. 
• Explainable visual 
analytics for human-
model interfaces 
• Generative design for 
digital twin analytics 
• Quantum algorithm 
suite to improve 
simulation models for 
MBSE applications 
• Digital thread across 
acquisition cycle for 
mission critical system, 
• Re-use and machine 
learning from digital 
twins  
• Digital twin validation 
and verification tools 
for adaptable systems 
• Continuous model and 
digital twin validation 
and verification 
• Measurement and case 
studies of impact of 
digital twin incorporation 
into LVC exercises and 
experiments 
• Best practices 
identification and 
adoption process 
Far Term  
(10 years) 
• Real-time data 
ingestion, 
analytics, and 
visualization for 
mission-critical 
systems 
• Complex models that are 
multi-class, multimodal 
and multiscale (across 
fidelity, resolution, and 
level) 
• Resilient self-describing 
and self-diagnosing 
complex models 
• MBSE for generative, 
adaptive AI systems 
• MBSE for quantum-
enabled sensing, 
communication, and 
computing systems  
• Governance for complex 
(multi-class, multimodal 
and multiscale) models 
and DE 
• Digital thread across a 
pathfinder portfolio 
• Validation and 
verification of models 
and DE for generative, 
adaptive AI systems 
• Evaluation framework 
for trustworthy 
autonomy 
• Continuous operations 
analysis and 
maintenance for 
generative AI systems 
• Cybersecure operations, 
models, and data 
Figure 14. DE Research Gaps by Capability Area
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[39] 
7.5. Recommendation 5: Develop Workforce DE Skills 
Given advancement of digital engineering requires new knowledge, skills, and abilities, as well as 
cultural transformation, up- or reskilling the workforce up and down echelons and across mission and 
functional areas will be essential to realize the benefits and mitigate the risks of digital engineering. 
Accordingly, the Task Force recommends the following workforce initiatives with both near- and long-
term outcomes: 
7.5.1. USD(R&E) finalize and release DE workforce reports for Section 231(a) through (c) of the FY 2020 
NDAA. 
7.5.2. Defense Acquisition University (DAU) advance acquisition curricula covering the knowledge, 
skills, and abilities addressing DE processes, methods, and tools required to enable model-based 
acquisition. This should leverage technologies such as model-based engineering, AI/ML, VR/AR, digital 
twins, and advanced manufacturing. Ensure target audience includes competencies related to 
acquisition, including, for example, cost, contracts, logistics, test, and evaluation.  
7.5.3. OSD(R&E) incentivize DE defense fellowships that provide experience in digital engineering for 
defense application. One exemplary model is the design of the DAF-MIT AI Accelerator.  
7.5.4. Given the highly limited talent and experience pool in digital engineering, OSD and the Military 
Services should extensively employ their Highly Qualified Expert (HQE) appointing authority to acquire 
HQEs and HQE- Senior Mentors who possess critical DE expertise and experience. In addition, leverage 
the Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA), where: 
1. Experts from IPA-eligible organizations (academia, non-profit R&D organizations, FFRDCs, UARCs, 
DOE Laboratories) invested in DE knowledge temporarily transfer to serve tours with appropriate 
DoD organizations. 
2. Civilian DoD employees working in DE-focused positions serve tours with IPA-eligible organizations 
to learn and transfer best DE practices from industry to government. 
7.5.5 USD(R&E) investigate the feasibility of establishing a DoD Manufacturing Innovation Institute (MII) 
for Digital Engineering (see public private partnerships in manufacturing).48  
 
 
48 “DoD Public-Private Partnerships Focus on Manufacturing Innovations to Fight COVID-19 and Build the Industrial 
Base,” Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, https://www.cto.mil/news/dod-
public-private-partnerships-focus-on-manufacturing-innovations-to-fight-covid-19-and-build-the-industrial-base/. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
[40] 
8. Summary 
The DSB Task Force on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation found that, 
when properly applied, digital engineering can improve cost, schedule, and performance of complex 
projects and programs. Moreover, as multiple case studies document, DE is a valuable tool for 
enhancing the speed, agility, and future-proofing that our national security community requires to stay 
ahead of increasingly capable adversaries operating in complex and contested environments. Achieving 
the full potential of digital engineering will require revision of policies and procedures; creation of 
shared digital infrastructure; advancement and adoption of architectures, standards, technology 
advancement to address gaps, such as in V&V and cybersecurity; and talent upskilling across operational 
and functional areas to enable digital transformation across the life cycle. Defense leaders and managers 
are implored to take the necessary steps to create a digital-first culture that will realize the exciting 
futures articulated in this study and accelerate toward sustainable systems superiority.  
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Terms of Reference [A-1] 
Appendix A: Terms of Reference 
 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Terms of Reference [A-2] 
  
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Membership [B-1] 
 
Appendix B: Membership 
Task Force Co-Chairs 
Dr. Robert Grossman 
Dr. Mark Maybury 
Task Force Members 
Dr. Prith Banerjee 
Dr. Jack Fleischman 
Dr. Paul Nielsen 
Dr. Alfred Spector 
Dr. Dinesh Verma 
Dr. Robert Wisnieff 
Ms. Philomena Zimmerman 
Executive Secretary 
Mr. Daniel Hettema (OUSD(R&E)) 
Government Advisors 
Dr. Amy Henninger (DHS) 
Mr. Mark Krzysko (OUSD(A&S)) 
DSB Secretariat 
Ms. Elizabeth Kowalski, DSB Executive Director 
Mr. Kevin Doxey, DSB Executive Director (former) 
Dr. Troy Techau, Designated Federal Officer (DFO) 
Support Staff 
Mr. Paul Normolle (SAIC) 
Ms. Hannah Gonzalez (SAIC) 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Checklist [C-1] 
Appendix C: Digital Engineering Checklist for Programs and Portfolios 
First. Identify, assess, and leverage existing digital artifacts, digital processes, and/or infrastructure. 
Second. Identify if, where, and when digital engineering can deliver cost, schedule, performance, and 
agility.  
Third. If warranted under these analyses, then pursue a MBSE-first approach in all acquisition pathways, 
strategies, and contracts. Key actions include: 
• 
Establishing DE Reference Architecture. 
• 
Creating an enabling DE infrastructure and reference implementation that enables semantically rich 
data interoperability across acquisition pathways and acquisition functions; engineering domains; 
and abstraction levels. 
• 
Creating a DE implementation plan including Digital Engineering Infrastructure as a Service (DEIaaS) 
across life cycle and DoD/DIB including contracting, engineering, T&E, and sustainment. 
• 
Assessing the full costs of a digital approach, to potentially include increased security risk, increased 
rigidity (overly constraining/conflicting standards, restrictive procurement), and digital immaturity.  
• 
Capturing data systematically across the life cycle including evidence of cost, schedule, 
performance, and agility of MBSE. 
• 
Employing virtual testing over physical testing where there is resource, safety, and/or confidentiality 
advantages. 
• 
Upskilling the workforce up and down echelons, across mission and functional area in terms of DE 
knowledge, skills, and abilities, as well as cultural transformation. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
F&R Mapping [D-1] 
Appendix D: Mapping of Findings and Recommendations 
Recommendation 
Finding 
7.1 Develop DoD DE reference architecture and 
DE infrastructure 
4.7.2 Inconsistent policies and standards; 4.7.4 No shared 
infrastructure; 5.8.1 Lack of open reference architecture 
expensive; 5.8.2 Insufficient standards; 5.8.5 Increase 
cybersecurity risk 
7.1.1 Reference architecture 
4.7.2 Inconsistent, unintegrated; 5.8.1 Costs of no reference 
architecture 
7.1.2 Reference implementation of Digital 
Engineering Ecosystem (DEE)  
4.7.3 Impediments to sharing; 4.7.4 No shared 
infrastructure; 5.8.2 Insufficient standards 
7.1.3 Digital Engineering Infrastructure as a 
Service (DEIaaS) 
4.7.4 No shared infrastructure an impediment to DE; 3.8.3. 
Oversight of tools and processes  
7.2 Accelerate Digital Acquisition 
7.2.1 Best practices 
3.8.1 Use cases; 3.8.2 Not applicable; 4.7.2; 4.7.3; 4.7.4 
7.2.3 Tailor DE acquisition 
4.7.1 Progress on policies and contracts; 3.8.3 Acquisition 
requires oversight 
7.3.4 Collect quantitative data and long-term 
repository 
2.7.1 Need for MBSE metrics and a DE maturity model 
 
7.3 Accelerate Virtual Testing and Reuse of Test Data 
7.3.1 Favor digital V&V 
3.8.1 Use cases; 5.8.3 Reuse; 5.8.6 V&V of data and models 
7.3.2 Share live test data 
3.8.1 Use cases; 5.8.3 Reuse 
7.3.3 Sec 231 infrastructure report 
4.6 Assessment of OSD Response; 4.7.4 No shared 
infrastructure 
7.4 Invest in DE Research and Development 
5.5 Research is needed; 5.8.7 Research gaps 
7.5 Develop the DE Workforce 
3.8.3 Need for qualified experts 
7.5.1 Sec 231 workforce report 
3.8.3 Technically qualified personnel; 6.3.1 Training DE 
workforce; 6.3.2 Existing training programs 
7.5.2 DAU curriculum 
6.3.1 Insufficient education and training 
7.5.3 Fellowships 
3.8.3 Need for qualified experts 
7.5.4 HQEs/IPAs 
6.3.2 Opportunity to leverage and enhance talent pipelines 
7.5.5 DoD Manufacturing Innovation Institute 
3.8.1 Use cases; 4.7.2 Inconsistent policies and standards 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Briefings Received [E-1] 
Appendix E: Briefings Received 
Meeting 1 (21 Sept 2022) 
Digital Engineering in the DoD 
Ms. Philomena Zimmerman, Task Force Member 
DE Overview from GEMS Study  
Dr. Dinesh Verma, Task Force Member 
Meeting 2 (24-25 Oct 2022) 
Digital Engineering at Amazon  
Amazon Web Services 
Digital Twin Consortium 
Digital Lendlease 
Development and Adoption of DE Maturity Models 
Systems Engineering Research Center 
Section 231 in OUSD(R&E) 
 
USD(R&E) 
Digital Innovation Center of Excellence 
Idaho National Laboratory, DOE Digital Innovation COE 
Meeting 3 (29-30 Nov 2022) 
Ansys Perspective on Digital Engineering 
 
Ansys, Inc. 
JHU-APL Perspective on Digital Engineering 
 
Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory  
Digital Engineering for Tool Interoperability 
 
MITRE 
Omniverse and Digital Engineering at NVIDIA 
 
NVIDIA 
Meeting 4 (18 Jan 2023) 
Joint Acquisition Innovation Research Center / OUSD(A&S) Data Management Program  
Virginia Tech National Security Institute  
Digital Engineering in OUSD(R&E) and DoD 
 
OUSD(R&E) 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Briefings Received [E-2] 
Meeting 5 (13-14 Feb 2023) 
Digital Engineering and Developmental Testing  
DTE&A 
Lockheed Martin Model Based Enterprise 
 
Lockheed Martin 
Lockheed Martin Joint All-Domain Operations (JADO) Synthetic Environment and Joint Warfighting 
Experiment (JWX) 
 
Lockheed Martin 
 
Digital Engineering for AEGIS Combat System Test Bed  
Cutlass Systems Engineering, Naval Research Laboratory, Naval Sea Systems Command 
Meeting 6 (14 Mar 2023) 
F-35 Mission Planning Environment 
 
F-35 Joint Program Office 
Strategic Capabilities Office Perspective 
Strategic Capabilities Office 
U.S. Air Force Air Operations Center  
AFLCMC/HBB “Kessel Run” 
Meeting 7 (28 Apr 2023) 
 
U.S. Air Force Base Distribution and Accountability Integrated Logistics Systems-Supply   
AFLCMC/GBS 
Artificial Intelligence and Digital Engineering at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory   
NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory 
Meeting 12 (12 Sept 2023) 
DE in Future Long-Range Assault Aircraft Program 
 
USA DEVCOM
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Glossary [F-1] 
Appendix F: Glossary 
Agile 
End user(s) team with developers in order to make instant decisions on user functionality. High level 
requirements are initially prioritized and developed quickly by small teams in order to get a working product 
quickly to the customer. Multiple, rapidly executed Increments are developed, and capabilities are released 
to the customer as soon as possible. Prototypes may be used as a starting place and utilize a modular, open-
systems approach. Agile methods are typically used for small, low risk projects. (DAU Glossary) 
Application Programming Interfaces (API)  
Used to provide simplified, reusable integration patterns between a user and a system or from system to 
system.” (Defense Acquisition University, Adaptive Acquisition Framework) 
Authoritative Source of Truth 
An entity such as a person, governing body, or system that applies expert judgment and rules to proclaim a 
digital artifact is valid and originates from a legitimate source (DAU Glossary) 
Concept of Operations (CONOPS) 
Describes the way the system works from the operator’s perspective. CONOPS includes the user description 
and summarizes the needs, goals, and characteristics of the system’s user community. This includes 
operation, maintenance, and support personnel. (INCOSE) 
  
A verbal or graphic statement, in broad outline, of a commander's assumptions or intent in regard to an 
operation or series of operations. It is designed to give an overall picture of the operation. It is also called the 
Commander's Concept. (DAU Glossary) 
Data Federation 
Government-wide capacity-building to support distributed data management challenges, data 
interoperability, and broader data standards activities. (resources.data.gov) 
Development, Security, and Operations (DevSecOps) 
An organizational software engineering culture and practice that aims at unifying software development, 
security, and operations. The main characteristic of DevSecOps is to automate, monitor, and apply security at 
all phases of the software life cycle: plan, develop, build, test, release, deliver, deploy, operate, and monitor. 
In DevSecOps, testing and security are shifted left through automated unit, functional, integration, and 
security testing – this is a key DevSecOps differentiator since security and functional capabilities are tested 
and built simultaneously. (DoDI 5000.87) 
Digital Artifact 
The artifacts produced within, or generated from, the DE ecosystem. These artifacts provide data for 
alternative views to visualize, communicate, and deliver data, information, and knowledge to stakeholders. 
(DAU Glossary) 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Glossary [F-2] 
A digital artifact is any combination of professional data, information, knowledge, and wisdom expressed in 
digital form and exchanged within a digital ecosystem. (DEIX Topical Encyclopedia) 
Digital Engineering (DE)  
An integrated digital approach that uses authoritative sources of systems' data and models as a continuum 
across disciplines to support life-cycle activities from concept through disposal. (DAU Glossary) 
Digital Engineering Ecosystem (DEE) 
A digital engineering ecosystem includes enterprises' interconnected digital environments, stakeholder-
networks, and semantic data that allows the exchange of digital artifacts from an authoritative source of 
truth to serve the stakeholder communities' interests. (DAU Glossary) 
Digital System Model 
A digital representation of a defense system, generated by all stakeholders that integrates the authoritative 
technical data and associated artifacts which define all aspects of the system for the specific activities 
throughout the system life cycle. (DAU Glossary) 
Digital Thread 
An extensible, configurable, and component enterprise-level analytical framework that seamlessly expedites 
the controlled interplay of authoritative technical data, software, information, and knowledge in the 
enterprise data-information-knowledge systems, based on the Digital System Model template, to inform 
decision makers throughout a system's life cycle by providing the capability to access, integrate, and 
transform disparate data into actionable information. (DAU Glossary) 
Digital Transformation 
Digital transformation is the integration of three developing trends and capabilities. First is the adoption of 
advanced digital technologies such as IoT, AI, Big Data, Digital Twin, VR/AR/MR/XR, Blockchain, etc. Second is 
the reformulation of business platforms and processes to operate in a lean, resilient, and real-time 
collaborative manner with customers and supplier networks. Third is the shift in workforce engagement to 
operate using virtual and boundary-less teams. The result is to significantly improve operations or 
disruptively enable new business models. (IEEE) 
Digital Twin 
A physics-based description of a system resulting from the generation, management, and application of data, 
models, and information from authoritative sources across the system’s life cycle. The digital twin must be 
more than just a descriptive model or collection of related digital information (e.g., a SysML model). It is a 
complete physical description including all behaviors. (CIMdata A&D PAG Glossary) 
  
An integrated multi-physics, multiscale, probabilistic simulation of an as-built system, enabled by Digital 
Thread, that uses the best available models, sensor information, and input data to mirror and predict 
activities/performance over the life of its corresponding physical twin. (DAU Glossary) 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Glossary [F-3] 
Fidelity 
The degree to which a model or simulation represents the state and behavior of a real-world object or the 
perception of a real-world object, feature, condition, or chosen standard in a measurable or perceivable 
manner; a measure of the realism of a model or simulation. (DoD Modeling & Simulation Coordination Office) 
Interoperability 
The ability of a model or simulation to provide services to and accept services from other models and 
simulations, and to use these exchanged services to operate effectively together. (SISO-REF-002-1999) (DoD 
Modeling & Simulation Coordination Office) 
Mission Engineering 
The deliberate planning, analyzing, organizing, and integrating of current and emerging operational and 
system capabilities to achieve desired warfighting mission effects. (DAU Glossary - Mission Engineering Guide, 
November 2020) 
Model-Based Definitions 
The practice of using 3D models (such as solid models, 3D PMI and associated metadata) within 3D CAD 
software to define (provide specifications for) individual components and product assemblies. The types of 
information included are geometric dimensioning and tolerancing, component level materials, assembly level 
bills of material, engineering configurations, design intent, etc. (NAFEMS) 
Model-Based Engineering 
The formalized application of modeling to support system requirements, design, analysis, verification, and 
validation activities beginning in the conceptual design phase and continuing throughout development and 
later life-cycle phases. (INCOSE SE Vision 2020) 
Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) 
The formalized application of modeling to support system requirements, design, analysis, verification, and 
validation activities beginning in the conceptual design phase and continuing throughout development and 
later life-cycle phases. (INCOSE SE Vision 2020) 
Modular Open Systems Approach (MOSA) 
An acquisition and design strategy, consisting of technical architectures, that adopts open standards and 
supports a modular, loosely coupled, and highly cohesive system structure. (OSD(R&E)) 
Product Data Management (PDM) 
Solutions and methodologies used within an enterprise to 1) organize, access, and control data related to its 
products, and 2) manage the life cycle of those products. A single PDM solution may work with CAD, CAM, 
CAE, other software applications, and with traditional non-computer systems that generate or use product 
data (such as paper documents). It also provides access and security controls, maintains relationships among 
product data items, enforce rules that describe and control data flows and processes, and provides 
notification and messaging facilities. PDM systems are used by managers, administrators, and end-users. 
(CIMdata A&D PLM Glossary) 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Glossary [F-4] 
Product Life Cycle Management (PLM) 
A strategic approach to creating and managing a company's product-related intellectual capital, from the 
product’s initial conception to the product’s retirement. As an information technology undertaking, PLM 
support entails modeling, capturing, exchanging, and using information in all PLM decision-making processes. 
(NIST) 
Reference Architecture 
An authoritative source of information about a specific subject area that guides and constrains the 
instantiations of multiple architectures and solutions… A common theme among [definitions] is that the 
primary purpose of a Reference Architecture is to guide and constrain the instantiations of solution 
architectures... Based on this, a Reference Architecture is considered an organizational asset in: 
• 
Providing common language for the various stakeholders. 
• 
Providing consistency of implementation of technology to solve problems. 
• 
Supporting the validation of solutions against proven Reference Architectures. 
• 
Encouraging adherence to common standards, specifications, and patterns. 
(OASD/NII; DoD Reference Architecture Description) 
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) 
A protocol that provides the high-level communications paradigm used in the operating system… 
[implementing] a logical client-to-server communications system designed specifically for the support of 
network applications. (IBM Documentation) 
Requirements 
1) The need or demand for personnel, equipment, facilities, other resources, or services, by specified 
quantities for specific periods of time or at a specified time. 2) For use in budgeting, item requirements 
should be screened as to individual priority and approved in the light of total available budget resources. 
(DAU Glossary) 
 
A statement that identifies a system, product, or process characteristic or constraint, which is unambiguous, 
clear, unique, consistent, standalone (not grouped), and verifiable, and is deemed necessary for stakeholder 
acceptability. (INCOSE) 
Subsystem 
A system element comprising an integrated set of assemblies, which performs a cleanly and clearly separated 
function, involving similar technical skills, or a separate supplier. (INCOSE) 
System 
An integrated set of elements, subsystems, or assemblies that accomplish an objective (defined or 
undefined). These elements include products (hardware, software, firmware), processes, people, 
information, techniques, facilities, services, and other support elements. (NAFEMS/INCOSE) 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Glossary [F-5] 
System Architecture Model 
Fundamental concepts or properties of a system, its environment embodied in its elements, relationships, 
and the principles of its design and evolution. (ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010:2011) 
System Model 
An interconnected set of model elements that represent key system aspects including its structure, behavior, 
parametric, and requirements. (ISO/IEC/IEEE 24641:2000 (E)) 49 
 
The system model is an integrating framework for other models and development artefacts including text 
specifications, engineering analytical models, hardware and software design models, and verification models. 
In particular, the system model relates the text requirements to the design, provides the design information 
needed to support analysis, serves as a specification for the hardware and software design models, and 
provides the test cases and related information needed to support verification and validation. (ISO/IEC/IEEE 
24641:2021 – DIS) 
System of Systems 
Systems of systems applies to a system-of-interest whose system elements are themselves systems; these 
typically entail large scale inter-disciplinary problems with multiple, heterogeneous, distributed systems. 
(NIST Glossary) 
Systems Engineering 
An interdisciplinary approach and process encompassing the entire technical effort to evolve, verify and 
sustain an integrated and total life cycle balanced set of system, people, and process solutions that satisfy 
customer needs. System engineering is the integrating mechanism for the technical and technical 
management efforts related to the concept analysis, materiel solution analysis, engineering and 
manufacturing development, production and deployment, operations and support, disposal of, and user 
training for systems and their life-cycle processes. (DAU Glossary) 
Test & Evaluation (T&E) 
Process by which a system or components are exercised, and results are analyzed to provide performance-
related information. The information has many uses including risk identification and risk mitigation and 
empirical data to validate models and simulations. T&E enables an assessment of the attainment of technical 
performance, specifications, and system maturity to determine whether systems are operationally effective, 
suitable, and survivable for intended use, and/or lethal. There are various types of T&E defined in statute or 
regulation: Developmental Test and Evaluation (DT&E), Operational Test and Evaluation (OT&E), Live Fire 
Test and Evaluation (LFT&E), and Interoperability Certification. (DAU Glossary) 
Traceability 
The degree to which a relationship can be established between two or more products of the development 
process, especially products having a predecessor-successor or master-subordinate relationship to one 
another. (IEEE Guide for Developing System Requirements Specifications) 
 
49 From a previous version, not included in current release. 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Acronym List [G-1] 
Appendix G: Acronym List 
AAF 
Adaptive Acquisition Framework 
AI 
artificial intelligence 
AI/ML 
artificial intelligence/machine learning 
AIA 
Aerospace Industries Association 
AIAA 
American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics 
API 
Application Programming Interface 
AR/VR 
augmented reality/virtual reality 
AR/VR/XR 
augmented reality/virtual reality/extended reality 
ASOT 
authoritative source of truth 
ASSIST 
Acquisition Streamlining and Standardization Information System 
AWS 
Amazon Web Services 
C2 
command and control 
CAD 
computer-aided design 
CAE 
computer-aided engineering 
CAM 
computer-aided manufacturing 
CDAO 
Chief Digital and Artificial Intelligence Office 
CI/CD 
continuous integration / continuous delivery 
CIO 
Chief Information Officer 
CONOP 
concept of operations 
CTO 
Chief Technology Officer 
DaaS 
data as a service 
DARPA 
 Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency 
DAU 
Defense Acquisition University 
DE 
digital engineering 
DEBoK 
Digital Engineering Body of Knowledge 
DEE 
digital engineering ecosystem 
DEIaaS 
Digital Engineering Infrastructure as a Service 
DEVCOM 
Combat Capabilities Development Command 
DevOps 
development operations 
DevSecOps 
development, security, and operations 
DIB 
Defense Industrial Base 
DoD 
Department of Defense 
DOE 
Department of Energy 
DOT&E 
Director, Operational Test and Evaluation 
DSB 
Defense Science Board 
DT&E 
Developmental Test and Evaluation 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Acronym List [G-2] 
DTE&A 
Director, Developmental Test, Evaluation, and Assessments 
DTS 
Digital Twin Shipyard 
ETM 
engineering and technical management 
EW 
electronic warfare 
FFRDC 
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers 
FY 
Fiscal Year 
GAI or GenAI 
generative artificial intelligence 
GEMS 
gaming, exercising, modeling, and simulation 
GFEM 
generalized finite element method 
HQE 
highly qualified experts 
iDS 
integrated digital shipbuilding 
ILS-S 
integrated logistics systems-supply 
INCOSE 
International Council on Systems Engineering 
INL 
Idaho National Laboratory 
IOT 
internet of things 
IPA 
Intergovernmental Personnel Act 
ISR 
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
IT 
information technology 
IWS 
Integrated warfare systems 
JADC2 
Joint All-Domain Command and Control 
JADO 
Joint All Domain Operations 
JWX 
Joint Warfighting Experimentation 
LVC 
live, virtual, and constructive 
M&S 
modeling and simulation 
MBA 
model-based acquisition 
MBSE 
model-based systems engineering 
MDAO 
multidisciplinary design, analysis, and optimization 
MDAP 
major defense acquisition program 
MII 
Manufacturing Innovation Institute 
ML 
machine learning 
MOSA 
Modular Open Systems Approach 
MoSSEC 
Modelling and Simulation Information in a Collaborative Systems 
Engineering Context 
NATO 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
NDAA 
National Defense Authorization Act 
NDIA 
National Defense Industrial Association 
NIST 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
O&M 
operation and maintenance 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE | DEFENSE SCIENCE BOARD 
 
 
 
 
DSB Report on Digital Engineering Capability to Automate Testing and Evaluation 
Acronym List [G-3] 
OSD 
Office of the Secretary of Defense 
OSLC 
Open Services for Lifecycle Collaborative 
OT&E 
operational test and evaluation 
OUSD(A&S) 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
OUSD(R&E) 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
PDM 
product data management 
PLM 
product life-cycle management 
PSM 
Practical Software and Systems Measurement 
R&D 
research and development 
RESTful API 
Representational State Transfer Application Programming Interface 
RFP 
request for proposal 
RMF 
risk management framework 
RPC 
remote procedure call 
SAE 
Service Acquisition Executive 
SCO 
Strategic Capabilities Office 
SE 
systems engineering 
SERC 
Systems Engineering Research Center 
SysML 
systems modeling language 
T&E 
test and evaluation 
UARC 
University Affiliated Research Center 
USD(A&S) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment 
USD(R&E) 
Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering 
V&V 
verification and validation 
VV&A 
verification, validation, and accreditation 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
