<!-- Page 1 -->
Best Practices 
and Lessons 
Learned from 
the Digital 
Transformation 
at General 
Dynamics 
Mission Systems
August 21, 2025
Speaker: Valentin M. Bustamante
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 2 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Imagine a world. . .
Imagine a world where your engineering teams can design, test, and iterate faster than ever 
before, with fewer errors and better collaboration. 
By shifting from traditional document-based methods to model-based digital engineering, we can 
achieve this. 
This transformation will enable us to create detailed, interactive models that can be easily updated 
and shared in real-time, ensuring everyone is on the same page. 
It reduces misunderstandings, improves efficiency, and accelerates our development cycles. 
Plus, it's not just a best practice—it's a Department of Defense directive, underscoring its 
importance and necessity. 
This positions us ahead of competitors by embracing the future of engineering. 
Let's lead the charge into this new era and unlock our full potential.
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 3 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Who Are You?  Why Are You Here?
• This is you
• You’re an engineer!
• You want to do good work!
• You want to contribute on a high performing team!
• You want to be seen as knowledgeable!
You want to be recognized as a leader at Digital Engineering
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 4 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Who am I
The Transformers have worked with 
over 30 Teams for the adoption of DE 
since 2022
Teams come with different 
backgrounds and skillsets, and 
projects ranging from low-level 
embedded to large, enterprise-
level; green field, IRADs, and 
legacy projects
KEVIN
JUDD
VALENTIN
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 5 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Background
• Teams are choosing to adopt Digital Engineering, or in some 
cases, required to
• Some teams are knocking it out of the park, while others 
struggle
• Some engineers are eager to jump in, while others aren’t
• My team is sharing our observations, experiences, know-how
Note: My company’s transformation started with Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE) 
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 6 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Best Practices - Knocking It 
Out Of The Park
• Acknowledging there is a lot to learn
• Rolling up your sleeves and getting dirty
• Getting other disciplines in the model
• Collaboration / Communication Tool
• Taking the bull by the horns
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 7 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Warning!  Short cuts can often 
lead the appearance that MBSE is 
wasteful
Note: My company’s transformation started with MBSE
• Recognizing that MBSE is SE (Systems Engineering)
• Strategic, Long-term modeling versus quick modeling
• Starting with the Problem Domain, and no short cuts
• Structuring the model for size; Federated modeling
• Knowing your audience
• Learn your team’s needs, including extended consumers
• Model for value, for answering questions
• Avoid over-modeling
Lessons Learned on 
Struggles
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 8 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Play-Actors
• Bad Model Organization; not modeling for reusability
• Not connecting the design model and its 
implementation (giving the impression modeling is 
great)
• Creating diagrams in drawing tools like Visio or using 
PowerPoint only to have them re-created in the 
model
• Commonly heard from these teams:
• “We don’t need any help. Thank you”
Warning!  This can often lead to propagating bad or unsustainable patterns
Talking the Talk.. But when you peel back 
the layers, seeing the team is going down 
the wrong path.
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 9 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Leaning Forward
• Drive. Personalities. Leadership
• Listening to the customer
• Observing the changing landscape
• Look outward to industry.
• Conferences, Local gatherings, INCOSE 
• Acknowledging areas for growth or short comings
• Pushing others to get excited!
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 10 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Transformation
• My organization has recognized the subtle difference between 
Adoption and Transformation
• Adoption – incorporating new tools and practices; Learning
• Transforming into a Digital Engineering Enterprise; Growing
• Leadership support
• Celebrating quick wins
• Metrics and showing value
• Adding and Integrating Digital Threading and Twinning into the Enterprise
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 11 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
The Takeaways
• Digital Engineering isn’t an island
• Feel safe in asking for help
• Avoid spin
• Share with others
• Roll up your sleeves; know you’ll make mistakes
• Model for value
• Avoid check-the-box modeling
• Get your peer disciplines in the model!
• Lots to learn, even for SMEs
• Having leadership not only buy in, but committed
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 12 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Enterprise Resources
• My company maintains shared repository of documents, 
manuals, tips and tricks
• My company is investing in new threading and twinning 
infrastructure
• My company supports the notion of having Coaches and 
Champions. Mentors, SMEs, and Advocates
• Outreach activities, both Internal and External
• Kick-start Workshops and Internal Training
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 13 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
Connecting to GDMS’ Mission, What 
does it mean to our customers
• By shifting from traditional document-based methods to model-
based Digital Engineering
• We can design, test, and iterate faster than ever before, with fewer 
errors and better collaboration. 
• It enables us to create detailed, interactive models that can be easily 
updated and shared in real-time, ensuring everyone is on the same 
page, reducing misunderstandings, improving efficiency, and 
accelerating our development cycles.
This positions us ahead of competitors by embracing the future of engineering and show our customers how 
we are leaning forward and embracing new technologies and tools that make our world safer and more secure
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.


<!-- Page 14 -->
©2025 General Dynamics Private Information. All Rights Reserved.
• Any questions?  
• Valentin.Bustamante@gd-ms.com 
• General Dynamics Mission Systems
• https://gdmissionsystems.com/ 
15
© 2025 General Dynamics. All rights reserved.
